The risks from Chinas debt pile are mounting as the country grapples with an economic slowdown and property crisis a leading credit ratings agency has said.

Moodys issued the warning as it cut its outlook on the governments debt to negative from stable.
The firm is the latest to raise concern about problems facing the worlds secondlargest economy.
China said it was disappointed by the move calling the economy resilient.
The country has signalled plans to ramp up stimulus spending as it battles soaring youth unemployment weaker global demand hitting its manufacturing industry and deepening woes in the property sector.
Some of the countrys largest construction companies are facing insolvency and have stopped building leaving customers stranded.
Local governments which have borrowed billions to build infrastructure and relied on land sales to bring in revenue are also under strain.
Moodys said the expected support for the local governments and other stateowned enterprises presented broad downside risks to Chinas fiscal economic and institutional strength.
Absorbing even some of the liabilities would be accompanied by material costs which would undermine Chinas fiscal strength and potentially its creditworthiness it said.

The negative outlook is a sign that Moodys could downgrade Chinas credit rating which is used by investors to help assess risks associated with investing in bonds and other debt and helps inform how lenders set interest rates.
The US which has seen its national borrowing soar is among the countries to have faced a debt downgrade in recent years.
For now however Moodys kept intact the A1 rating for Chinas long term national debt a strong grade slightly lower than that of the US and UK.
It said that reflected expectations the government would manage its economic challenges in an orderly fashion.
Chinas finance ministry said the countrys longterm prospects had not changed and it expected to be able to manage the impact of the property sector slowdown.
Chinas macroeconomy continues to recover and highquality development is steadily advancing it said. It is unnecessary for Moodys to worry about Chinas economic growth prospects and fiscal sustainability.
After decades of seeing its economy expand by more than 8 a year China is on track to grow by 5.4 this year. However growth is likely to slow to 3.5 by 2028 according to a forecast from the International Monetary Fund.
International economic groups have warned that the slowdown in China will weigh on the global economy in the years ahead especially in regions such as subSaharan Africa which had seen an influx of Chinese investment.

Israel says it is investigating claims that some investors may have known of Hamass attack on Israel before it took place on 7 October.

An academic study suggests investors betting against the Israeli economy may have made large sums.

Researchers found significant shortselling in the runup to the attacks.

Shortselling is when investors try to make money on shares bonds or other financial instruments that they think will fall in price.

They arrange to sell shares they do not yet own at the current price hoping to buy them later at a cheaper price before the shares change hands so they can then bank the difference.

Days before the attack traders appeared to anticipate the events to come say researchers Robert Jackson Jr from New York University and Joshua Mitts of Columbia University.

They said the shortselling far exceeded the shortselling that occurred during numerous other periods of crisis including the recession following the financial crisis the 2014 IsraelGaza war and the Covid19 pandemic.

The researchers said they had identified a dramatic increase in investors seeking to sell shares in Israeli companies on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange.
They also noted a spike in selling activity in an investment that tracks movements in Israeli shares known as an Exchange Traded Fund ETF.

ETFs are funds that can be bought and sold which invest in a pool of underlying shares. They typically track the movements in an index such as the FTSE 100 or Dow Jones allowing investors to buy or sell a whole class of assets  in this case Israeli companies.

The study said shortselling activity in the MSCI Israel Exchange Traded Fund suddenly and significantly spiked on 2 October based on data from the US financial watchdog the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.

In a 66page report they added that Just before the attack shortselling of Israeli securities on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange increased dramatically.

In response the Israel Securities Authority said The matter is known to the authority and is under investigation by all the relevant parties.

The study said that 4.43 million new shares in Leumi Israels largest bank were shortsold between 14 September and 5 October period yielding profits of 3.2bn shekels 862m; 684m.

Our findings suggest that traders informed about the coming attacks profited from these tragic events and consistent with prior literature we show that trading of this kind occurs in gaps in US and international enforcement of legal prohibitions on informed trading the study said.

I managed to escape this place Nazmi Hanafiah laughs slightly nervously.

A year ago the 30yearold IT engineer moved to Forest City a sprawling Chinesebuilt housing complex in Johor on the tip of southern Malaysia. He rented a onebedroom flat in a tower block overlooking the sea.
After six months hed had enough. He didnt want to continue living in what he calls a ghost town.
I didnt care about my deposit I didnt care about the money. I just had to get out he said. We had arranged to meet in the same tower block he used to live in.
Im getting goosebumps just being back he said. Its lonely around here  its just you and your thoughts.
Chinas largest property developer Country Garden unveiled Forest City  a 100bn 78.9bn megaproject under the Belt and Road Initiative  in 2016.
At the time the Chinese property boom was in full flow. Developers were borrowing colossal sums of money to build both home and abroad for middleclass buyers.
In Malaysia Country Gardens plan was to build an ecofriendly metropolis featuring a golf course waterpark offices bars and restaurants. The company said Forest City would eventually be home to nearly one million people.
Eight years on it stands as a barren reminder that you do not need to be in China to feel the effects of its property crisis. Currently only 15 of the entire project has been built and according to recent estimates just over 1 of the total development is occupied.
Despite facing debts of nearly 200bn Country Garden told the BBC it is optimistic the full plan will be completed.
Its creepy here

Forest City was billed as a dream paradise for all mankind. But in reality it was aimed squarely at the domestic Chinese market offering aspirational people the chance to own a second home abroad. Its selling prices were out of reach for most ordinary Malaysians.
For Chinese buyers the property would be an investment that could be let out to local Malaysians such as Mr Nazmi or used as a holiday home.

In reality Forest Citys isolated location  built on reclaimed islands far from the nearest major city Johor Bahru  has put off potential tenants and earned it its local nickname Ghost City.
To be honest its creepy says Mr Nazmi. I had high expectations for this place but it was such a bad experience. There is nothing to do here
Forest City certainly gives off a strange atmosphere  it feels like an abandoned holiday resort.
On the deserted beach theres a shabby childrens playground a rusting vintage car and perhaps aptly a white concrete staircase to nowhere. By the water there are signs warning against swimming because of crocodiles.
In the purposebuilt shopping mall many of the shops and restaurants are closed  some units were just vacant construction sites. In a surreal touch there is an empty childrens train doing endless laps around the mall while playing Heads shoulders knees and toes on loop in Chinese.

Next door in Country Gardens showroom there is an enormous model city showing what a completed Forest City would look like. Sitting at the sales stall are a couple of boredlooking employees  the sign above them said Forest City. Where Happiness Never Ends.
By far the biggest draw here is the areas dutyfree status. On the beach youll find piles of discarded alcohol bottles and pockets of local drinkers who provide the bulk of human activity here.
When night falls Forest City becomes pitch dark. The enormous apartment blocks which loom over the complex each contain hundreds of apartments but no more than half a dozen have their lights on. Its hard to believe anyone actually lives here.
This place is eerie says Joanne Kaur one of the few residents I encounter. Even during the day when you step out of your front door the corridor is dark.
She and her husband live on the 28th storey of one of the tower blocks  theyre the only ones on the whole floor. Like Mr Nazmi they are renters and also like Mr Nazmi they plan to leave as soon as they can.
I feel sorry for people who actually invested and bought a place here she says. If you were to Google Forest City its not what you see here today.
It should be the project that was promised to the people but thats not what it is she added.

Speaking to people in China who bought units in Forest City is not easy. The BBC did manage to reach a handful of owners indirectly but they were reluctant to comment even anonymously.
However social media offers some anecdotal evidence. Under a post praising the development one buyer from Liaoning province said This is very misleading. The current Forest City is a ghost town. There are no people at all. It is far from the city has incomplete living facilities and it is difficult to move without a car.
Other comments asked how they could get a refund on their property with one saying The price of my unit has dropped so much Im speechless.

This kind of frustration is being felt across China where the property market is in disarray.
After years of rampant borrowing by developers the government feared a bubble was forming and imposed strict limits in 2021. Houses are for living in not speculation was the mantra of Chinas leader Xi Jinping.
As a consequence of these measures major companies have run out of cash to finish huge projects.
In October Country Garden was forced to abandon two projects in Australia selling off an unfinished development in Melbourne and another in Sydney.

Local political factors have also contributed to the current situation at Forest City. In 2018 Malaysias then prime minister Mahathir Mohamad restricted visas for Chinese buyers citing his objection to a city built for foreigners.
Some analysts have also questioned the wisdom of building a megadevelopment in a country whose political and economic environment is unstable. The current Malaysian government is supportive of the Forest City project but to a prospective buyer it is unclear how long that will last and to what extent.
Other unexpected issues such as Covid travel restrictions and controls on how much money Chinese citizens could spend abroad have especially hampered overseas projects launched by giants such as Country Garden.
I think they probably pushed it a bit too far too fast says Tan Wee Tiam from KGV International Property Consultants. Before launching a hugely ambitious project like this the critical lesson to learn is ensuring you have sufficient cash flow.
This week the worlds most indebted real estate company Evergrande faced a liquidation hearing at a court in Hong Kong. In the end the Chinese company was given a six week reprieve to agree on a repayment plan with its creditors as the judge adjourned the hearing for a seventh time.

Country Garden insists the current situation in the Chinese property market is just noise and its Malaysian operation runs its business as usual.
It also said plans to include Forest City in a new special economic zone between Malaysia and neighbouring Singapore showed the project was safe and stable.
But without access to cash it is hard to see how projects such as Forest City can be finished or how it will attract people to live there any time soon. At the moment Chinesebuilt property is a tough sell to put it mildly.
Its a chicken and egg situation says Eveline Danubrata from REDD Intelligence Asia. A developer typically relies on presales to help fund construction.
But buyers wont put their money in if theyre not sure whether theyll get their apartment keys in the end.

When it comes to Chinas property crisis Forest City is a classic case of ambition versus reality. Some local factors may have contributed to the current situation but it is proof that building tens of thousands of apartments in the middle of nowhere is not enough to convince people to live there.
Ultimately the fate of Forest City  and hundreds of projects across China  depends on the Chinese government. Last month there were reports that Country Garden had been placed on a preliminary list of developers that would receive financial support from the Chinese government  though the extent of that support still is not clear.
Its unlikely that people like Mr Nazmi will return though I will definitely choose more carefully next time he says. But Im happy Ive left this place  now Ive got my life back.

A former Tesla employee has told the BBC he believes the technology powering the firms selfdriving vehicles is not safe enough to be used on public roads.

Lukasz Krupski leaked data including customer complaints about Teslas braking and selfdriving software to German newspaper Handelsblatt in May.
He said attempts to highlight his concerns internally had been ignored.
Tesla did not respond to requests for comment.
Elon Musk the chief executive of Tesla has championed its selfdriving technology.
Tesla has by far the best realworld AI Mr Musk said in a post on X formerly Twitter on Saturday.
But in his first UK interview Mr Krupski told the BBCs technology editor Zoe Kleinman he was concerned about how AI was being used  to power Teslas autopilot service.
Its autopilot feature for example includes assisted steering and parking  but despite its name it does still require someone in the drivers seat with their hands on the wheel.
I dont think the hardware is ready and the software is ready he said.
It affects all of us because we are essentially experiments in public roads. So even if you dont have a Tesla your children still walk in the footpath.
Mr Krupski said he had found evidence in company data which suggested that requirements relating to the safe operation of vehicles that had a certain level of autonomous or assistivedriving technology had not been followed.
He added that even Tesla employees had spoken to him about vehicles randomly braking in response to nonexistent obstacles  known as phantom braking. This also came up in the data he obtained around customer complaints.
According to Teslas own data at the end of 2022 US customers using Autopilot averaged one crash where the airbag deployed roughly every 5 million miles travelled.
It claims that Tesla drivers not using it averaged once every 1.5 million miles or so.
The US driver overall average was once every 600000 miles. The BBC cannot independently verify Teslas figures.
Mr Krupski said he had felt compelled to share what he had found with data protection authorities.
The US Department of Justice have been investigating Tesla over its claims relating to its assisted driving features since January.
Tesla has also faced similar probes and questions from agencies including the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration about its autopilot system.
German newspaper Handelsblatt published the Tesla Files after Mr Krupski shared 100GB of internal data he discovered.
The data protection authority in the Netherlands where Teslas European headquarters are based confirmed to the BBC it had been notified of the data breach and was looking into the claim.

Mr Krupski said the last six months and experience of being a whistleblower had been terrifying.
I barely sleep at night sometimes he told the BBC.
But his actions have been recognised by others  he has been awarded the Blueprint for Free Speech Whistleblowing Prize.

Jack Stilgoe an associate professor at University College London who researches autonomous vehicles said Mr Krupskis claims raised wider concerns about the technology.
This is a sort of test case of artificial intelligence in the wild on the open road surrounded by all the rest of us he said.
The UK Government announced plans for an Automated Vehicles Bill to outline a legal framework for selfdriving cars in the Kings Speech in early November.
Well have to see as the bill gets developed whether it grapples with all of the novel things about the technology Prof Stilgoe added.

Booking.com users have spoken of their anger at the companys failure to stop them falling victim to cybercriminals.

For at least a year fraudsters have been able to infiltrate its app and trick users out of hundreds of pounds.

Dozens of people have contacted the BBC to say they have lost money with one saying she had been failed by the travel firm.

Booking.com said it was implementing new safety features but there was no silver bullet.

The company which is one of the biggest hotel and holiday websites in the world has not itself been hacked.

Instead criminals have tricked their way into the administration portals of individual hotels that use the service.

This enables them to send messages from the official app and fool customers into paying them instead of the hotel.

This kind of fraud has been happening for more than a year but recently appears to have increased in intensity with hackers taking to the dark web to seek more victims.

Colleen Marples 44 from the Derbyshire Dales lost 147 when booking a holiday in Egypt for her husbands 50th birthday in March.

After exchanging messages with what she thought was the hotel in Cairo via the Booking.com app she was sent a payment request. It had in fact come from scammers.

I clicked on it not suspecting it was a scam given it was in the same ongoing chat in the app she told the BBC.

She has not been able to recover the money from the website or her bank.

Its not a high amount of money for Booking.com but its a significant amount of money in everyday life.

Booking.com have a duty to their clients and theyve failed in this case. I am still battling to get my money.
Another British customer who wished to remain anonymous told the BBC he lost 1200 after being tricked through the app.

He is also fighting to get a refund and said he felt extremely let down.

I believe as a customer that chooses to use the official platform set up by the company you can expect a level of security and trust from within that system.

Meanwhile Ian Robinson 64 from Cumbria described how hackers attempted to scam him twice for 122 and then 283 at two unrelated hotels in separate towns as he booked a road trip in the UK.

Luckily I phoned the hotels directly and so avoided getting caught but when I reported it to Booking.com they werent interested he said.

A spokesman for Booking.com said that there was no silver bullet to eradicate all fraud on the internet but that the companys security team were always monitoring and stopping new threats.

We are implementing new measures to assure the account security of both our customers and partners including new security features to lock or block inactive partner admin accounts which is where we have seen fraudulent activity take place once scammers get unauthorised access to the hotels Booking account.

The company said it was also monitoring for suspicious activity on its app and disabling links being shared if the chats appear illegitimate.

Hackers have been able to gain access to personal information from about 6.9 million users of genetic testing company 23andMe using customers old passwords.

In some cases this included family trees birth years and geographic locations the company said.
After weeks of speculation the firm has put a number on the breach with more than half of its customers affected.
The stolen data does not include DNA records.
23andMe is a giant of the growing ancestortracing industry. It offers genetic testing from DNA with ancestry breakdown and personalised health insights.
The biotechnology company which is based in South San Francisco was not hacked itself but cybercriminals logged into about 14000 individual accounts or 0.1 of customers by using email and password details previously exposed in other hacks.
As was first reported by Tech Crunch the company has acknowledged that by accessing those accounts hackers were then able to find their way into a significant number of files containing profile information about other users ancestry.
The criminals downloaded not just the data from those accounts but the private information of all other users they had links to across the sprawling family trees on the website.
The stolen data includes information like names how each person is linked and in some cases birth years locations pictures addresses and the percentage of DNA shared with relatives.
As first reported by TechCrunch the hackers were able to access the family tree profile information of about 1.4 million other customers participating in the DNA relatives feature including display names and relationship labels.
One batch of data was advertised on a hacking forum as a list of people with Jewish ancestry sparking concerns of targeted attacks.
But there is currently no evidence that any of the datasets being advertised have had any buyers or that they have been used by criminals.
Oz Alashe CEO of CybSafe a risk management platform said that the data breach at 23andMe emphasises the importance of improving cybersecurity behaviours in the general population.
Poorly secured accounts with weak passwords and no twofactor authentication put all those sharing their sensitive data at risk he said.
23andMe said it was now telling all affected customers as required by law. The firm will be forcing customers to change their passwords and improve their account security.

I managed to escape this place Nazmi Hanafiah laughs slightly nervously.

A year ago the 30yearold IT engineer moved to Forest City a sprawling Chinesebuilt housing complex in Johor on the tip of southern Malaysia. He rented a onebedroom flat in a tower block overlooking the sea.
After six months hed had enough. He didnt want to continue living in what he calls a ghost town.
I didnt care about my deposit I didnt care about the money. I just had to get out he said. We had arranged to meet in the same tower block he used to live in.
Im getting goosebumps just being back he said. Its lonely around here  its just you and your thoughts.
Chinas largest property developer Country Garden unveiled Forest City  a 100bn 78.9bn megaproject under the Belt and Road Initiative  in 2016.
At the time the Chinese property boom was in full flow. Developers were borrowing colossal sums of money to build both home and abroad for middleclass buyers.
In Malaysia Country Gardens plan was to build an ecofriendly metropolis featuring a golf course waterpark offices bars and restaurants. The company said Forest City would eventually be home to nearly one million people.
Eight years on it stands as a barren reminder that you do not need to be in China to feel the effects of its property crisis. Currently only 15 of the entire project has been built and according to recent estimates just over 1 of the total development is occupied.
Despite facing debts of nearly 200bn Country Garden told the BBC it is optimistic the full plan will be completed.

Forest City was billed as a dream paradise for all mankind. But in reality it was aimed squarely at the domestic Chinese market offering aspirational people the chance to own a second home abroad. Its selling prices were out of reach for most ordinary Malaysians.
For Chinese buyers the property would be an investment that could be let out to local Malaysians such as Mr Nazmi or used as a holiday home.

In reality Forest Citys isolated location  built on reclaimed islands far from the nearest major city Johor Bahru  has put off potential tenants and earned it its local nickname Ghost City.
To be honest its creepy says Mr Nazmi. I had high expectations for this place but it was such a bad experience. There is nothing to do here
Forest City certainly gives off a strange atmosphere  it feels like an abandoned holiday resort.
On the deserted beach theres a shabby childrens playground a rusting vintage car and perhaps aptly a white concrete staircase to nowhere. By the water there are signs warning against swimming because of crocodiles.
In the purposebuilt shopping mall many of the shops and restaurants are closed  some units were just vacant construction sites. In a surreal touch there is an empty childrens train doing endless laps around the mall while playing Heads shoulders knees and toes on loop in Chinese.

Next door in Country Gardens showroom there is an enormous model city showing what a completed Forest City would look like. Sitting at the sales stall are a couple of boredlooking employees  the sign above them said Forest City. Where Happiness Never Ends.
By far the biggest draw here is the areas dutyfree status. On the beach youll find piles of discarded alcohol bottles and pockets of local drinkers who provide the bulk of human activity here.
When night falls Forest City becomes pitch dark. The enormous apartment blocks which loom over the complex each contain hundreds of apartments but no more than half a dozen have their lights on. Its hard to believe anyone actually lives here.
This place is eerie says Joanne Kaur one of the few residents I encounter. Even during the day when you step out of your front door the corridor is dark.
She and her husband live on the 28th storey of one of the tower blocks  theyre the only ones on the whole floor. Like Mr Nazmi they are renters and also like Mr Nazmi they plan to leave as soon as they can.
I feel sorry for people who actually invested and bought a place here she says. If you were to Google Forest City its not what you see here today.
It should be the project that was promised to the people but thats not what it is she added.

Speaking to people in China who bought units in Forest City is not easy. The BBC did manage to reach a handful of owners indirectly but they were reluctant to comment even anonymously.
However social media offers some anecdotal evidence. Under a post praising the development one buyer from Liaoning province said This is very misleading. The current Forest City is a ghost town. There are no people at all. It is far from the city has incomplete living facilities and it is difficult to move without a car.
Other comments asked how they could get a refund on their property with one saying The price of my unit has dropped so much Im speechless.

This kind of frustration is being felt across China where the property market is in disarray.
After years of rampant borrowing by developers the government feared a bubble was forming and imposed strict limits in 2021. Houses are for living in not speculation was the mantra of Chinas leader Xi Jinping.
As a consequence of these measures major companies have run out of cash to finish huge projects.
In October Country Garden was forced to abandon two projects in Australia selling off an unfinished development in Melbourne and another in Sydney.

Local political factors have also contributed to the current situation at Forest City. In 2018 Malaysias then prime minister Mahathir Mohamad restricted visas for Chinese buyers citing his objection to a city built for foreigners.
Some analysts have also questioned the wisdom of building a megadevelopment in a country whose political and economic environment is unstable. The current Malaysian government is supportive of the Forest City project but to a prospective buyer it is unclear how long that will last and to what extent.
Other unexpected issues such as Covid travel restrictions and controls on how much money Chinese citizens could spend abroad have especially hampered overseas projects launched by giants such as Country Garden.
I think they probably pushed it a bit too far too fast says Tan Wee Tiam from KGV International Property Consultants. Before launching a hugely ambitious project like this the critical lesson to learn is ensuring you have sufficient cash flow.
This week the worlds most indebted real estate company Evergrande faced a liquidation hearing at a court in Hong Kong. In the end the Chinese company was given a six week reprieve to agree on a repayment plan with its creditors as the judge adjourned the hearing for a seventh time.

Country Garden insists the current situation in the Chinese property market is just noise and its Malaysian operation runs its business as usual.
It also said plans to include Forest City in a new special economic zone between Malaysia and neighbouring Singapore showed the project was safe and stable.
But without access to cash it is hard to see how projects such as Forest City can be finished or how it will attract people to live there any time soon. At the moment Chinesebuilt property is a tough sell to put it mildly.
Its a chicken and egg situation says Eveline Danubrata from REDD Intelligence Asia. A developer typically relies on presales to help fund construction.
But buyers wont put their money in if theyre not sure whether theyll get their apartment keys in the end.

When it comes to Chinas property crisis Forest City is a classic case of ambition versus reality. Some local factors may have contributed to the current situation but it is proof that building tens of thousands of apartments in the middle of nowhere is not enough to convince people to live there.
Ultimately the fate of Forest City  and hundreds of projects across China  depends on the Chinese government. Last month there were reports that Country Garden had been placed on a preliminary list of developers that would receive financial support from the Chinese government  though the extent of that support still is not clear.
Its unlikely that people like Mr Nazmi will return though I will definitely choose more carefully next time he says. But Im happy Ive left this place  now Ive got my life back.

Travelling the world by bicycle for two years might be too physically challenging for most of us but Zoe Ashbridge has found a way to make the pedalling a little bit easier.

She and her partner and travelling companion Stewart use an app called Windy to track the direction of the wind.

We use it daily says Zoe a 33yearold from Shropshire. It saves us wasting time and energy.

Our bikes weigh around 30 to 40kg and if were going against the wind we can get sore knees. It prevents all that. Why spend two hours cycling when the next day it would take 30 minutes?

Weather apps are continuing to become ever more detailed and bespoke as technology and artificial intelligence continue to develop. It means more realtime updates and personalised recommendations.

Forecasting models have become more accurate... and thats certainly due to tech advancements says Steven Smith chief executive of USbased Accuweather. His business has been forecasting weather since 1962 when its first customer was a natural gas company that wanted to be able to better plan for winter demand.

The ultimate goal at the extreme end is to help save lives and protect property all the way to helping people make the best weather impact decisions for example do I need an umbrella do I need to leave early?.

Over at the UKs Met Office one of its biggest tech developments over the last year has been improving its digital weather maps and the data it pours into them.

You can see where the weather is moving in real time and where its coming towards you says Sophie YeomansSmith product manager at Met Offices app. If theres a huge downpour you can look at the live rain forecast and see where its heading.

Weve been improving the tech underpinning it all and changed host providers to help us make improvements. It used to be one day ahead that it would show now its five days.

In a bid to tailor its products more the Met Office has introduced dedicated beach and mountain forecasts. With the beach forecast it tells you how windy it is what the waves are going to be like... and we have partnered with RNLI the Royal National Lifeboat Institution on it says Ms YeomansSmith.

The mountains data says things like what the weather at the top of the mountains and at ground level will be like.

Meanwhile the Met Office announced in August that it had joined forces with Scottish airline Loganair to further bolster its forecast accuracy. Sensors fitted to Loganairs aircraft monitor environmental conditions around the planes during flights.

This data is said to help the Met Office both better predict extreme weather and pinpoint localised thunderstorms and fog.

Eric Floehr is founder of ForecastWatch a US company that analyses and collates the performance of weather providers including accuracy measures. He says weather forecasters are continuing to put more attention into communicating as quickly as possible against a backdrop of climate change making weather patterns more changeable.

Tech improvements have resulted in improvements to forecasts theyre more accurate and reliable. These days people are using them multiple times a day theres more realtime application of weather forecasting looking at creating alerts in the next few minutes and hours.

Yet its harder for forecasters to identify extreme weather as its rare but there is more interest and attention paid to how do we better predict the extreme weather?. However I think startup funding has lacked in this area.

He suggests that the lack of financial backing for such new weather app firms is ironically due to weather. More specifically  because the Silicon Valley region of northern California home to many tech investors does not typically suffer from climate extremes.

Its notable that Silicon Valley does not have changeable weather meaning that its venture capitalists dont think about investing in it he says.

Back at Accuweather Mr Smith says it started building artificial intelligence AI databases back in the late 1980s to help predict weather patterns. It now also uses AI to automatically translate its reports into different languages.

We have global audience with over 100 languages and dialects so all these different products have to be converted into number of different languages which can be consumed by users he says. The newest way of using AI is around language generation and putting phrases together which can be very detailed. It could be concerning flooding if the commute might be a problem.

Mr Smith add that Accuweather is also investing more in making sure users are informed of severe weather and air quality.

A lot of what were doing is continuing to focus on health and safety says Mr Smith. More people are attuned to air quality for example the impact of going outside for a run. We can show what the air pollution forecast will be what the ground level ozone and other irritants will be.

He also says that if there is a wildfire the company can predict the direction of the smoke the severity and the temperature. Its about enhancing warnings and visualisations.

Returning to Zoe Ashbridge and her global bike ride she says she has now used the Windy app in 27 countries. If I see a fellow cyclist struggling against the wind Ill tell them about it.

The US has unveiled rules aimed at keeping Chinese components out of electric cars sold in the country.

The restrictions are tied to government incentives for electric cars made in America.

The hotlydebated limits are intended to help build up the industry in America but critics say they could slow adoption of electric cars.

Chinese firms currently produce the vast majority of electric car batteries and the minerals used in them.

But US politicians have cast overreliance on Chinese manufacturers as an economic and security risk.

Planned partnerships between major firms such as Ford and Chinas CATL a battery manufacturer have been subject to criticism and debate.

Last year Congress passed a climate law offering billions in tax incentives and other money to try to boost the industry in the US.

The law included a tax incentive worth up to 7500 per vehicle for buyers of electric cars made in America.

The climate law which the White House says has sparked nearly 100bn in private investment in the US related to electric cars immediately barred electric cars made outside the country from receiving tax credits.

Starting in 2024 the law also barred cars from eligibility for tax credits if they contain battery components manufactured or assembled by a foreign entity of concern.

By 2025 the restrictions will expand to cars that contain critical materials extracted processed or recycled by such an entity.

The proposal announced on Friday says the government will define a foreign entity of concern as a company headquartered in or owned or controlled by China Russia Iran or North Korea.

Any company in which the government of these countries holds 25 or more of a boards seats voting rights or shares would fall under the rules which now open for a period of public comment.

President Biden entered office determined to reverse the decadeslong trend of letting jobs and factories go overseas to China said John Podesta senior adviser to the President for Clean Energy Innovation and Implementation.

Thanks to the Investing in America agenda and todays important guidance from Treasury and the Department of Energy were helping ensure that the electric vehicle future will be made in America.

Only about 20 of more than 100 models of electric vehicles for sale in the US currently qualify for the tax credit according to the Alliance for Automotive Innovation AAI a lobby group representing carmakers which said the guidance offered much needed clarity to their members.

It said it appeared that cars produced using batteries and materials from certain kinds of partnerships with Chinese firms if located in the US would not run afoul of the rules.

It also praised officials for exempting certain trace materials from the rules for two more years.

The EV transition requires nothing short of a complete transformation of the US industrial base. Its a monumental task that wont happen overnight AAI president John Bozzella wrote.

The Treasury guidance recognizes the complexity of this task and the challenges facing automakers with some good balance.

But Senator Joe Manchin a Democrat from a coal state who provided a key vote on the climate bill said the administration was interpreting the law too loosely.

This administration is yet again trying to find workarounds and delays that leave the door wide open for China to benefit off the backs of American taxpayers he said in a statement adding that he would push for revisions and support any lawsuit against the rule.

After seeing posted pay ranges some workers are frustrated by what seem like lowball salary offers. Recruiters say candidates are reading the numbers wrong.

In October Mary submitted an online application for a communications job at a large multinational firm. She satisfied or exceeded all the requirements for the role so she requested a figure in the top quartile of the salary range listed in the job description. Within 24 hours Mary had been notified of her rejection with an automated email.
A few days later she got a private tip from an acquaintance in the companys recruiting department the desired salary she wrote was too high and the company had no intention of honouring the full range it listed in the job posting. The algorithm used to screen applications had simply eliminated her.
Since 2020 seven US states and several localities have enacted paytransparency laws which require employers to publish salary ranges for open positions or make them available upon request. More than a dozen others have proposed similar legislation. Lawmakers have pushed for salary transparency laws in the US to discourage pay discrimination by holding companies publicly accountable to specific salary ranges for all candidates. These laws may also help streamline the jobhunting process for workers potentially eliminating rounds of interviews before salary even comes up. 
Jobseekers have welcomed the changes but many employers have expressed discomfort with  or even distaste for  the new requirements. A 2023 survey from jobsearch platform ZipRecruiter showed 44 of employers worry disclosing pay ranges discourages applicants from submitting CVs when their competitors advertise higher ranges and just as many believe that such publicly available information limits their ability to negotiate starting pay with candidates.
Amid these concerns  and a patchwork of state and local laws all of which set different standards for disclosure and accountability  many employers have exploited the vague language of paytransparency legislation which gives them latitude with how they interpret disclosure rules. In some cases this has meant salary ranges so wide theyre practically meaningless; in others job applicants have found the listed figures shrink once they reach the interview stage  if they even get past the algorithms that screen their answers at all. 
Candidates are angry. Recruiters say theyre merely following standard practice. 
Firms arent trying to be deceptive argue some recruiting experts  its that candidates often dont understand what a salary range represents on a listing. Its common for companies to list the full pay scale of the role not the hiring range says Bonnie Dilber a recruiting manager at automationsoftware company Zapier.
For instance if the range published in the job description is 70000 to 100000 564000 to 80550 a new hire may start the job at 85000 68500 but make up to 100000 as they earn raises and bonuses throughout their tenure in the role. In short the company never intended to hire a new worker at 100000  thats simply where it caps pay for that position.
She says most companies aim to hire in the middle of the advertised range which leaves room for raises as employees prove themselves over time and that its not intended for everyone to reach the top of a range only strong performers.
I find that anyone whos done some hiring themselves and been involved in compensationsetting which many hiring managers have understands this says Dilber. Whereas for jobseekers seeing salaries communicated for the first time… there is a learning curve.
Keirsten Greggs a former corporate recruiter who now runs her own recruitment consultancy in the Washington DC area agrees this approach can be opaque for people who havent worked in recruiting. It often leaves applicants misinterpreting the figures on a listing.
And now that pay transparency laws are on the books many workers feel deceived when a job offer is extended that doesnt reflect the posted range.
Theresa McFarlane a technology project manager in her 40s in Vancouver Washington has been on the job hunt for several months. After being burned in almost a dozen interviews she now expects to be lowballed. If a job is posted for 50 to 60 41 to 48 an hour she estimates shell be offered far less  as much as 5 to 10 4 to 8 below the listing.

McFarlane says companies that publish unrealistic salary ranges take advantage of desperate job seekers.
Its a red flag of a lowquality employer that doesnt have their act together she says. Its unprofessional. Its very frustrating at times. It can be depressing when it happens with employer after employer.
LinkedIn is rife with posts by similarly angry jobseekers who have learned during screening calls  or as late as the offer stage  that at least the top quartile of the advertised salary range was never on the table. Many say they were never told why the full pay range wasnt available and its driving some workers to write off companies or lose faith in salary transparency laws.
Alongside these posts however are recruiters who insist published pay ranges are misunderstood and that applicants are simply expecting too much 
This is neither baitandswitchy nor underhanded wrote one talentacquisition professional. The salary band provided  68.1 to 93.7  is the salary band for the position. Not a starting salary band .... In many companies going above the midpoint requires additional levels of approval and additional justification.
If she were in the market for a new job Zapiers Dilber says she would want to see the full pay scale not just the hiring range. If I would need the top of the range to take a job thats probably not a job I would apply for because I dont see any room for growth.
As an employer if youre going to list the pay scale rather than the hiring range in the job posting then make that clear she says. Zapier added language to its job postings that indicates the range published is not necessarily what a new hire can expect explaining that the top half of the range listed is typically reserved for individuals who have consistently demonstrated a high level of job knowledge and skills for their current role and level while at Zapier.
As much of a problem as the misguided expectations can be the murky nature of the laws themselves only piles on the frustration. 
Californias law requires employers to list in the job description the salary or hourly wage range that the employer reasonably expects to pay for the position; in New York the requirement is compensation or range of compensation for a job promotion or transfer opportunity. There is no federal mechanism that either standardises or enforces what a salary listing should or should not be. 
In many of the paid transparency laws is a lack of specificity says Llezlie Green a professor of law and director of the Civil Justice Clinic at Georgetown Law. If you can provide a range thats 100000 its not really providing a lot of information to applicants.
Some laws like Colorados and New Yorks contain an in good faith clause which ostensibly means that the range published is what the employer expects to pay for the job. But as for language like this it doesnt mean very much until its defined says Green.
Until the agency designated to enforce the rule  which varies for each law  issues more detailed guidance to employers or a lawsuit is brought that alleges a law has been violated the meaning of in good faith is open to interpretation. And so far there have been no major challenges to the nations nascent pay transparency laws. Green says It creates a bit of a loophole for the employer in terms of their having to provide information thats useful to the employee.
Greggs says some companies are listing ranges so wide that the intention could only be to satisfy compliance laws not set realistic expectations for applicants. She argues not only is it easier to list the full pay scale but it also makes the role look more attractive. The solution is simple she says post a range that the company genuinely expects to pay a new hire.
For now jobseekers can only modify the way they apply if employers arent going to define the way they list compensation ranges whether voluntarily or by law.
Projectmanager McFarlane now only submits applications for jobs whose published pay ranges are well above her target. Mary  who let her friends know about her experience  also changed strategy. Shes more discerning about the jobs she applies for and is now less likely to list a specific ideal salary when asked.
Instead Mary plans to be vague herself to avoid getting pulled out of the applicant pool. Something within the range listed could do the trick  perhaps giving employer a taste of their own opacity.

Air Frances ad said it was committed to protecting the environment and Lufthansa urged passengers to fly more sustainably. Etihads ad used the words environmental advocacy.

The Advertising Standards Authority ASA said the ads did not show the impact airlines have on climate change.

Lufthansa and Etihad removed the ads.

The ASA said Air France did not provide a substantive response to its investigations. It did not respond to the BBCs request to comment.

The advertising watchdog said by claiming Air France enabled people to travel better and sustainably customers would think the airline offered a sustainable and environmentally friendly way to travel by air which was not true.

The ASA investigates adverts by companies it suspects of over overstating their environmental friendliness known as corporate greenwashing.

Lufthansa said the words fly more sustainably were a reference to its Green Fares option for passengers on European flights. It said this used some sustainable aviation fuel and made a contribution to climate protection projects. Lufthansa told the BBC it aimed to be carbon neutral by 2050. It said it had taken the decision to to remove fly more sustainably from future ads.

Etihad Airways said it had immediately removed all references to environmental advocacy from its paidfor Google search ads after receiving the complaint. It told the BBC sustainability was a key priority.

The advertising watchdog said it had picked up the adverts using an AI system which uses the software to search for possible rule breakers.

Wednesdays ruling is not the first time Lufthansa has been pulled up by the ASA for greenwashing.

In March the airlines Make Change Fly campaign was found to have misled consumers into thinking the airline had already taken steps to make sure the environmental impact of its business was not harmful.

Lufthansa responded that the purpose of the ad was to address the need to reduce the impact of flying on the environment and making consumers aware but the ASA upheld the decision. It said that air travel produced high levels of both CO2 and nonCO2 emissions which were making a substantial contribution to climate change a statement it repeated on Wednesday in its latest ruling.

Wednesdays decision is the latest in a string of upheld decisions by the advertising watchdog over greenwashing. Since 2021 a slew of firms including Persil HSBC and Shell drinks companies Innocent and Oatly  and even two funeral providers Golden Leaves and JC Atkinson & Son  have had adverts banned.

Companies are receiving greater scrutiny than ever to lower carbon emissions with airlines under particular pressure to reduce their footprint.

In November the first transatlantic flight by a large passenger plane powered only by socalled sustainable aviation fuels SAF flew from London to New York.

It was seen as a demonstration that a greener way of flying is possible. But SAF accounts for less than 0.1 of the aviation fuel consumed around the world and there are currently no dedicated commercial plants in the UK.

The UK government plans to require 10 of aviation fuel to be SAF by 2030.

Thames Water has said that reviving the business will take time as it reported sliding profits and an increase in its huge debt pile.

Profits for the first half of its financial year more than halved to 246m while debts rose 7 to 14.7bn.

Thames Water secured extra funds in July but questions have been raised over the nature of the support.

The Environment Committee has called in the firms bosses to be quizzed by MPs next week over the deal.

Concern over Thames financial strength earlier this year led to speculation it might be taken over by the government.

But the companys two interim chief executives have said that will not be necessary as it has more than 3bn in cash and recently got a 500m cash injection from its shareholders.

However the Financial Times reported recently that the source of that money was a further loan to its parent company Kemble Water Holdings.

The chairman of the Environment Committee Sir Robert Goodwill has questioned whether Thames has represented its finances accurately.

Speaking to the BBCs Today programme Sir Robert said The question I think we need to ask Thames Water is... how will that debt be serviced because unless they increase dividends to enable Kemble Water Holdings to service that debt they could end up in an even more difficult situation.

The company has already written to Sir Robert saying that the 500m does not increase the debt burden on Thames Water but after meeting the firm on Tuesday the Environment Committee said in light of recent news reports bosses would be called in for questioning on Tuesday 12 December.

The committee is keen to interrogate the full nature of this financing a statement said.

Investors have also said they will pump in an additional 750m but that is contingent on the regulator agreeing to bill increases of 40 by 2030.

Thames Waters cochief executives Cathryn Ross and Alastair Cochran said It is clear that immediate and radical action is required.

They added Turning around Thames will take time. We simply cannot do everything that our customers and stakeholders wish to see at a pace and for a price that everyone would like.

We will continue to make the tough choices required to deliver what matters most to our customers and the environment.

A spokesperson for Thames Water added the company was in a robust financial position and are extremely fortunate to have such supportive shareholders.

Last week the auditors of Kemble Water Holdings warned there was a material concern over its future.

This was partly due to uncertainty over how a 190m loan which is due for repayment in April 2024 will be refinanced.
Thames latest results show that the number of pollution incidents increased during the six months to September.

It admitted performance had deteriorated with the number of category 13 pollutions  where category 1 is the most serious  had risen to 257 from 217 in the same period last year.

The company said its threeyear turnaround plan addresses and mitigates the major drivers of pollutions across our wastewater network and sewage treatment works.

We are committed to tackling the root causes of pollutions to meet the expectations of our communities and the needs of the environment.

Earlier this year Thames Water was fined 3.3m after it discharged millions of litres of untreated sewage into two rivers near Gatwick in 2017 killing more than 1400 fish.

Later on Tuesday Labour will table a motion calling on the government to give the water regulator Ofwat powers to ban the payment of bonuses to water bosses if their companies are discharging significant levels of raw sewage into UK waterways.
Ryanair has said reports it has changed its policy so people have to pay for an online boarding pass are false.

Over the past few days customers have complained that they have had to pay up to 21 for a seat to access a digital boarding pass when checking in.

Several told the BBC the only other option was to queue at the airport to collect a paper version.

A Ryanair spokesperson said passengers have never been asked to pay to download boarding passes.

All Ryanair passengers can pay for a reserved seat if they so wish or if passengers wish to avoid this seat fee they can select a randomly allocated seat entirely free of charge the spokesperson said.

However several passengers have complained on social media that if they chose the option of a randomly allocated seat they were told they would have to pick up a paper boarding pass at the airport a problem first reported in the Mail on Sunday two days ago.

A series of indignant posts on X formerly Twitter have addressed Ryanair directly.

When and why did you start this carry on? I now have to QUEUE to collect my boarding pass at the airport? said one passenger travelling from London to Belfast early on Monday morning.

Another passenger said I just cant believe your new policy of not allowing passengers to create a boarding pass mobile or printout unless they buy a seat forcing them to join a checkin queue 30m or longer to do so for no other reason for you to make a few quid. Scandalous.

This definitely happened to me Neil Buckley told the BBC. He flew to Riga with Ryanair at the weekend and said he felt forced to pay 15.50 for reserved seats  the equivalent of 10 of the ticket price.

The app said if I opted for a free random seat Id have to go to checkin to get a paper boarding pass which Ive never seen before.

If you wanted a digital boarding pass it said you had to pay for a reserved seat. I was really annoyed that I had to pay to avoid the inconvenience of queueing at checkin he said.

Anita Wilczynska who flew to Krakow last Thursday said that while checking in online a message appeared informing her she must either collect her boarding pass from the airport or purchase a seat for an eboarding pass.
Another traveller on social media said that staff at the airport checkin desk told them the new policy was only for the last 20 passengers checking in for a flight and the charge had been introduced in the past few days.

The BBC has asked Ryanair for further explanation.

Most airlines require passengers to check in online confirming their intention to travel. Usually you can download an electronic copy of your boarding pass at the same time as doing this. Some passengers choose to pick up a printed boarding pass at the airport instead. None of those choices usually incur a charge.

However these Ryanair passengers say they found they had to book a seat which typically cost between 7 and 21 before they were allowed to download their boarding pass. The only alternative if they chose not to pay to book a seat was to queue for a boarding pass at the airport they said.

Lowprice airlines such as Ryanair have gained a reputation for adding on charges such as for putting luggage in the hold booking a seat and asking for a seat with extra legroom.

Budget carriers argue that is how they keep basic fares low compared to traditional carriers who usually provide meals baggage and other addons within the overall price.

Adding extra optional fees is known as drip pricing and can add significantly to the total price.

Recent government research into the issue found these hidden fees were common not only among airlines but also at other travel firms gyms restaurants cinemas and theatres. More than half of firms in the entertainment and hospitality industries operate some kind of drip pricing the research found.

The government recently held a public consultation into drip pricing and whether there should be clearer information for consumers.

The consultation closed in October but the government has not indicated when it will respond.

Ryanairs pricing strategy has already been in the news in recent months after it charged an elderly couple 110 to print their tickets at the airport. They had mistakenly downloaded their return tickets instead of their outgoing ones.

In a second case that hit the headlines Ryanair charged a family 165 to check


