XAI an artificial intelligence startup founded by Elon Musk has filed with the SEC to raise up to 1 billion in an equity offering.

The company has already brought in nearly 135 million from four investors with the first sale occurring on Nov. 29 and has a binding and enforceable agreement for the purchase of the remaining shares the filing says.

The AI startup which Musk announced in July seeks to understand the true nature of the universe according to its website. Last month XAI released a chatbot called Grok which the company says is modeled after The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy. The chatbot debuted with two months of training and has realtime knowledge of the internet the company claims.

Grok is designed to answer questions with a bit of wit and has a rebellious streak so please dont use it if you hate humor! XAI wrote on its website adding It will also answer spicy questions that are rejected by most other AI systems.

The company didnt immediately respond to a request for comment.

With Grok XAI aims to directly compete with companies including ChatGPT creator OpenAI which Musk helped start before a conflict with cofounder Sam Altman led him to depart the project in 2018. It will also be vying with Googles
 Bard technology and Anthropics Claude chatbot.

Earlier this year Musk reportedly secured thousands of highpowered graphics processing units GPUs from Nvidia the kind of chips necessary to build a large language model.

XAI is one of many companies owned or led by Musk. In addition to his control of X previously Twitter which he purchased last year Musk is CEO of Tesla
 and SpaceX. He also operates underground tunnel developer Boring Company and braintech startup Neuralink.

Last month Musk said investors in X formerly Twitter would own 25 of XAI.

We are a separate company from X Corp but will work closely with X Twitter Tesla and other companies to make progress towards our mission XAI says on its website.

People working on XAI include alumni of DeepMind OpenAI Google Research Microsoft Research Twitter and Tesla. Theyve worked on projects including DeepMinds AlphaCode and OpenAIs GPT3.5 and GPT4 chatbots according to LinkedIn profiles.

Musk incorporated XAI in Nevada in March according to filings.

On a Tesla earnings call in July heres what Musk told analysts wondering about whether XAI may compete with any of Teslas business

There were just some of the worlds best AI engineers and scientists that were willing to join a startup but they were not willing to join a large sort of relatively established company like Tesla he said. So I was like OK well better its a startup that I run than they go work somewhere else. Thats kind of the genesis of XAI.

For XAIs financing the date of the initial sale coincided with Musks appearance at the 2023 DealBook Summit where he told advertisers who had suspended campaigns on X to go f*** yourself. Dozens of advertisers had stopped spending on X after Musk posted and amplified antisemitic comments.
Eli Lilly on Tuesday said its recently approved weight loss treatment Zepbound is now available at pharmacies across the US serving as an alternative to rival obesity drugs such as Wegovy that are facing supply issues. 

Zepbound is the latest entrant to the budding weight loss drug market which Wall Street expects to grow to about 100 billion by the end of the decade.

High demand for the treatments has resulted in widespread shortages of Novo Nordisk
s Wegovy and diabetes drug Ozempic as well as Eli Lillys diabetes treatment Mounjaro pushing companies to ramp up production. Those ongoing supply issues give Zepbound which contains the same active ingredient as Mounjaro an opportunity to capture market share.

Eli Lilly also said in a release that its commercial savings card program which aims to expand access to Zepbound is now available to patients with a prescription.

Under the program patients whose health insurance covers Zepbound may pay as low as 25 for a one or threemonth prescription of the weekly injection. Those whose insurance does not cover Zepbound may pay as low as 550 for a onemonth prescription  about half the drugs list price. 

Also on Tuesday Eli Lilly said Zepbound was added to the preferred formulary or list of covered drugs of a major drug benefits company Cigna.

Zepbound will be added to the commercial formularies of Cignas healthcare business on Dec. 15 according to Eli Lilly. 

The availability of Zepbound in US pharmacies is the first step but we have to work handinhand with employers government and healthcare industry partners to remove barriers and make Zepbound available to those who need it said Rhonda Pacheco Eli Lillys group vice president for diabetes and obesity in a statement.

Zepbound is an injection administered once weekly. The dosage must be increased over a period of four to 20 weeks to achieve the target dose sizes of 5 10 or 15 milligrams per week.

The drug works by activating two naturally produced hormones in the body glucagonlike peptide 1 known as GLP1 and glucosedependent insulinotropic polypeptide or GIP.

The combination is said to slow the emptying of the stomach making people feel full for longer and suppressing appetite by slowing hunger signals in the brain.
CVS Health
 on Tuesday said it will revamp how it prices prescription drugs and scrap a complex model that typically sets how much pharmacies get reimbursed and what patients pay for those medications.

The new effort makes CVS the latest company to try to upend the traditional prescription drug pricing system which has faced years of political scrutiny for what critics call a lack of transparency and inflated healthcare costs for US consumers. 

CVS will launch a new model for reimbursing its pharmacies on Jan. 1 2025 for commercial payors executives said during the companys 2023 investor day. 

CVS new model could change the cost of prescription drugs for some patients but it will not necessarily make all medicine cost less company executives said. Some dcirugs may cost less while prices of others might rise they noted. But more prescription costs should fall than climb for consumers employers and health insurers according to the executives.

Still CVS is committed to lowering drug pricing and making the process more transparent CEO Karen Lynch said on CNBCs The Exchange on Tuesday.

What this does is it essentially aligns the economics of our pricing for drugs to what consumers will pay at the pharmacy counter Lynch said of the new model. What people have been saying is We dont understand its not transparent its not easy to understand how much drugs cost.

Were changing that she added.

Shares of CVS closed nearly 4 higher on Tuesday following the companys investor day where it also issued a better 2024 revenue forecast than Wall Street expected.

CVS said the plan named CVS CostVantage will use a sustainable and transparent formula to determine a medications price and the corresponding reimbursement pharmacies receive from pharmacy benefit managers. Those middlemen negotiate drug discounts with manufacturers on behalf of health insurers large employers and others that contract them. 

Under the new model CVS more than 9000 retail pharmacies will get reimbursed by PBMs and other payors based on the cost of the drug a clearly defined markup and a fee to cover handling and dispensing the prescriptions said Prem Shah president of CVS pharmacy and consumer wellness segment during the companys investor day. 

Lynch told CNBC Its a cost plus markup plus a fee. And thats the transparency of what were trying to do.

Currently pharmacies are typically paid using a complicated system not directly based on what they spent to purchase drugs. That model which involves a multitiered network of insurers drug manufacturers PBMs and pharmacies leads to ambiguity around fees and markups added to the original cost of a drug.

Billionaire Mark Cuban last year launched an online pharmacy that takes a similar approach to CVS new reimbursement model. The company called Cost Plus Drugs aims to drive down the price of medicines broadly by selling them at a set 15 markup over their cost plus pharmacy fees.

Cuban said in an email to CNBC that he has no reaction at all to CVSs new model.
Cubans venture is already shaking up the broader healthcare industry CVS suffered a blow over the summer when a major California health insurer Blue Shield of California announced it will no longer use the company as its PBM and instead will partner with several companies including Cubans firm and Amazon Pharmacy. 

CVS Healths Caremark is one of the major PBMs in the US Caremark and other PBMs have faced increased scrutiny over their role in surging drug costs and the Federal Trade Commission is also investigating their practices.

Cubans drug company has put pressure on other companies that manage drug benefits to make their own changes. For example Cigna
 announced last month that its PBM will offer a pricing model similar to Cost Plus Drugs. 

The Biden administration is taking its own steps to rein in prices of medications.

As part of the presidents Inflation Reduction Act the administration in August announced the first 10 prescription drugs that will be subject to drug price negotiations with the federal Medicare program which aims to make costly medications more affordable for older Americans.
The special election to fill expelled Rep. George Santos House seat will be Feb. 13 New York Gov. Kathy Hochul announced Tuesday.

Until then House Republicans will be down a vote leaving them with an even narrower majority in the chamber than usual.

As Governor I have the solemn responsibility to call a special election to ensure the voters of Long Island and Queens once again have representation in Congress Hochul a Democrat said in a statement.

The seat is a key part of Democrats plan to retake the House majority next year.

Former Democratic Rep. Tom Suozzi represented New Yorks 3rd district before Santos but left Congress in 2022 to mount a failed run for governor. Now he is a lead contender for the support of New York Democratic leaders in running for his old seat.

The House expelled Santos on Friday with significant bipartisan support. The expulsion resolution was championed by a bloc of Santos fellow New York Republicans. A bloc of Santos fellow New York Republicans championed the expulsion resolution.

Santos flipped the Long Island congressional district red last year. In the process he also became the first openly gay Republican in the House.

Soon after he was elected Santos admitted that he had lied about key aspects of his background on the campaign trail.

In May he was charged with fraud and theft in federal court in New York. Santos was hit with additional charges in late October. He has pleaded not guilty and his trial is set for September 2024.

Members of Congress provide critical constituent services serve as a link to federal agencies and advocate on behalf of the constituents who sent them to Washington Hochul said Tuesday. I look forward working with the next representative for the 3rd Congressional District on the issues facing New Yorkers.
An EU wealth tax the end of capitalism in the US and a major health crisis arising from obesity drugs are just some of the outrageous predictions put forward by Saxo Bank in a report published Tuesday.

Heading into 2024 the Danish investment bank suggested the world is at an inflection point with the familiar road of the last decade coming to an end.

The predictions focus on a series of unlikely but underappreciated events that if they were to occur would send shockwaves across the financial markets. The forecasts are not representative of the banks official views.

Its all about provoking thought processes and what Ive found over the last 21 years is that boards like it when theyre doing forward planning central banks like it for the risk mitigation and I think our clients love it because its engaging  its like being at a good dinner table conversation where people are pushing against each other Saxo Bank Chief Investment Officer Steen Jakobsen told CNBC on Tuesday.
As the European Union requires more funding for a suite of longterm policy goals including climate change mitigation health care education and the war in Ukraine Saxo Bank Head of Equity Strategy Peter Garnry suggested the blocs leaders could implement a 2 wealth tax.

This would be rendered more likely if the population realises how little in tax billionaires are actually playing he speculated with social unrest frequently simmering across the continent.

Citing the Global Tax Evasion Report 2024 Garnry noted that despite its vast welfare system compared to the US the EU has 499 billionaires in US dollar terms who pay the lowest personal tax in percentage of wealth compared to billionaires from North America and East Asia.

Billionaires in France have a pretax income rate on par with US billionaires despite the fact that the entire population is paying between 4650 in average tax violating the core principle of reciprocity. In the Netherlands it is even better to be a billionaire as the average tax rate is below what US billionaires pay Garnry noted.
A 2 wealth tax on EU billionaires would raise 42 billion euros 45.5 billion toward the funding of key policy aims while a wider 2 tax on multimillionaires could lift this to 100150 billion euros Garnry projected.

The EUs modern version of Robin Hood sends shockwaves through the European luxury industry. Recent studies have shown a strong correlation between the pursuit of luxury items and levels of income and wealth inequality Garnry predicted.

The EU Commissions new wealth tax immediately lowers market expectations for luxury goods demand in the future and investors dump European luxury stocks.

This would see shares of French luxury giant LVMH
 Europes secondlargest company by market capitalization plunge 40 while luxury vehicle makers such as Porsche and Ferrari would also suffer the report speculated.
The success of new GLP1 obesity drugs have been a key fixture in 2023 with the wildly popular Wegovy propeling Denmarks Novo Nordisk
 to supplant LVMH as Europes most valuable publicly listed company.

But Saxo strategists said this creates a risk that reliance on such drugs grows to the extent that populations decrease exercise and increase junk food intake.
Should this coincide with governments and US health insurers increasingly viewing antiobesity drugs as potential cost savers demand could skyrocket and vastly outstrip supply leaving those who have begun a course of treatment without access and therefore exposed to this change in lifestyle habits.

Global adult obesity rates shoot up from the current 39 to 45 in 2024 bringing a host of other side effects such as a rise in diabetes incidence or even a spike in heart disease more injuries due to reduced muscle strength and general reduction in immune system efficiency. Increased illnesses and sick days make global productivity dip Garnry and fellow strategist Charu Chanana projected in the report.
Against an increasingly uncertain geopolitical backdrop Saxo Senior Fixed Income Strategist Althea Spinozzi hypothesized that the US government could be forced to further increase defense spending while the Federal Reserve may still have to tighten monetary policy amid a second wave of inflation.

In order to avoid social unrest Congress may be forced to increase fiscal spending sending the budget deficit above 10 of GDP and meaning the government must foster demand for US Treasurys urgently.

The attention goes to the stock market where the Magnificent Seven have now become twelve thanks to a missed downturn and government support programs directed to lenders and homeowners Spinozzi said. The group currently comprises Apple Amazon Alphabet Meta Microsoft Nvidia and Tesla.

To join the club are Eli Lilly Novo Nordisk JPMorgan Chase LVMH and ASML. As the Twelve Titans multiplies their valuations within a few months inequality increases between investors and noninvestors.
Understanding that political stability depends upon its continued ability to finance a huge deficit through US Treasury issuance thus lowering interest rates the government must increase the attractiveness of domestic bonds over stocks.

Under intense pressure from the White House Congress makes capital gains and interest income on US Treasuries taxfree. With government debt in the hands of domestic investors the cost of funding becomes less volatile Spinozzi speculated.

This dramatic move marks the end of capitalism as money rotates from private corporations to the public and holding riskier assets becomes more expensive. Counterintuitively the Twelve Titans consolidate their market dominance as they benefit from longterm lower cost of funding while the rest of the stock market collapses.

Other outrageous predictions include oil hitting 150 per barrel and Saudi Arabia subsequently buying European soccers Champions League in order to take it global; a generative AI deepfake triggering a national security crisis; Robert F. Kennedy Jr. winning the US presidential election; Japan being forced to abandon its yield curve control policy; and a coalition of deficit countries forming a Rome Club to restructure global trade dynamics.

The bank has made a set of outrageous predictions each year for the last decade and some have actually come true  or at least come close.

In 2015 Saxo forecasted that the U.K. would vote to leave the European Union following a United Kingdom Independence Party landslide it predicted Germany would enter a recession in 2019  which the country narrowly avoided  and it wagered that bitcoin would experience a meteoric rally in 2017.

Charter shares closed down by more than 8 Tuesday after its Chief Financial Officer Jessica Fischer said the company could lose broadband subscribers in the fourth quarter.

Charter competitor Comcasts stock also closed down by more than 3.

I can certainly see that its likely that we could end up with negative internet net adds inside of Q4 Fischer said at the UBS Global Media and Communications Conference. The company saw subscribers drop in October due in part to the effects of its dispute with Disney and higher interest rates and November was similarly soft Fischer said.

Charter added more than 60000 broadband customers in its third quarter this year. Comcast reported it lost 18000 broadband subscribers in the third quarter.

Charter has invested billions in efforts to expand its broadband coverage to rural and underserved communities. The company spent 1.1 billion on line extensions in the third quarter driven by rural expansion efforts.

But line expansions add little value when people arent buying homes. The housing market has suffered in recent months as buyers and sellers contend with rising interest rates and tight supply. Mortgage demand is also at its lowest point in nearly 30 years.

Even so Fischer believes Charter will return to subscriber growth citing a potential rebound in the housing market. Adding value back into video referring to Disney and Charters deal to include Disney+ in some Spectrum plans will also drive competitiveness for Charter Fischer added.
Waymo Alphabets selfdriving car unit is having a relatively good couple of months  at least compared to one of its key rivals GMs Cruise. 

Formerly known as the Google selfdriving car project and now an independent subsidiary of Google parentcompany Alphabet Waymo has been operating in some capacity since 2009. Five years ago the company launched what it billed as the worlds first commercial autonomous ridehailing service in the metro Phoenix area then last year expanded to San Francisco. The company soon plans to launch commercially in Austin its fourth city and also recently began testdriving vehicles in the winter weather of Buffalo New York. 

For much of this time Cruise has seemed to be competing neckandneck When Waymo raised funding at a 30 billion valuation in 2020 Cruise followed in 2021 with the same valuation. When Cruise began offering fully autonomous rides in San Francisco in the winter of 2022 Waymo followed in the fall. In August California regulators voted to approve roundtheclock robotaxi service in San Francisco from both companies making it the first major US city to allow two robotaxi companies to compete for service at all hours of day or night. 

Now after a barrage of safety concerns and incidents with Cruise selfdriving cars in recent months the landscape looks starkly different. Cruise has paused all public road operations  both supervised and manual laid off contractors and recalled nearly 1000 robotaxis after a pedestrian collision. In October the California Department of Motor Vehicles suspended Cruises deployment and testing permits for its autonomous vehicles effective immediately and last week GM announced it would significantly cut spending on Cruise in 2024. 

Amid the news Waymos chief product officer Saswat Panigrahi told CNBC that the selfdriving car unit hasnt seen a change in tone from regulators or a shift in the companys public perception. 
There are no shortcuts. I mean this is not a question youre asking an app or a web page which is giving you an answer. This is a multithousand pound vehicle thats moving through the physical world  yes its an application of AI but a very different kind of application of AI. And theres something to be said about time and experience and just rigor that no matter how hard you work it takes time to do this. 

So I would say that the amount of data youve tested yourself against  you could always test more but the staggering scale of testing that has been brought to bear  I sometimes say that building the Waymo Driver is a hard thing but its almost as hard to evaluate the Driver. The amount of simulation we have had to do… has taken a decade. It took Googles level of infrastructure because even to simulate at that scale as you and I are speaking right now 25000 vehicles in our simulator are learning to drive better. To bring that you need incredible infrastructure capability because even if you had the AI capability without the infrastructure itd be very hard to bring that skill to bear  a decade of investment into AI before AI was cool. 
Yeah some of it is just raw scale of compute how many computers can you bring to bear that kind of thing. But some of it is also  think of the oldschool video game versus how realistic video games have become now thats a metaphor for how things are. Lets say we saw a person in Phoenix speeding at 60 miles an hour on a 45 mileperhour street and then imagine that we saw a very tight intersection in SF  can you realistically mix these two to challenge your driver to a harsher situation that may occur many millions of miles later in the real world?

On top of that being able to add rain for example  all right youre safe enough when youre driving through good weather through this tight intersection with a speeding agent. Can you do that as well in rain? Can you do that at night? You cant wait for the rain in real life to occur exactly when you want to push your system in that way but being able to simulate rain requires that infrastructure but also enough algorithms and realism on top to be able to push this.
I have worked with pretty highscale systems before Waymo at Google and Ericsson and this is a pretty staggering scale. But the only number I can tell you is 25000plus virtual vehicles driving continuously 24/7 learning from each other and tens of billions of miles in simulations. Think of how much you or I drive in a year  we drive what 10000 miles in any given year…? Now think of billions of miles of experience  close to seven orders of magnitude difference.
For riders its just been an incredibly positive response. We look at their ratings we look at their usage patterns we look at what they qualitatively tell us we speak to them in focus groups and all of them have been overwhelmingly positive… 

On people we share the city with  communities groups like first responders firefighters and so on  were continuously engaged with them. Were listening to their feedback. We have trained more than 5000 first responders in SF alone multiple training sessions and based on that have brought new features. For example now we can signal intensities to firefighters that Hey were about to make a Uturn and get out of this scene.
With regulators we have a very open dialogue and submitted more data than they ever asked for… So it has been a very positive engagement with them but no change in tone.

We were the first company that openly released our safety framework the mechanism by which we test the performance of our system and how we determine when were ready to deploy three years ago. We were also the first to release all of our collision data from the fully autonomous service… Those were all before any regulator asked us for something. And then yes we do submit ongoing reports to them as well.
Theres a ton of AI thats helping us detect a pedestrian a child a cyclist a pedestrian on a scooter a pedestrian on a scooter thats motorized which is why its going much faster an older person with a stroller theyre pushing. Being able to predict which direction the car thats making an unusual curvature is going to jump in… being able to predict where different objects are going to be in the next few seconds.

All that is an insane amount of AI with a lot of specialization on the difference between how kids behave versus how adults behave versus how people on bicycles behave… Everything you can think of from deep learning reinforcement learning all of these areas we are utilizing it in multiple parts of the system.
I want to clarify that the driving is done by the Waymo Driver on the car  there is no remote person driving the car. You can think of it like air traffic control in a way. Air traffic control doesnt fly the plane but the pilot may ask a question to air traffic control Hey Im observing a very anomalous situation here what is the intent? And there are very basic binary questions that can be asked that a person can respond to provide clarification when thats not immediately clear from the scene.

For example you could have a set of cones blocking a street but there could be a large enough gap where you could go in so its a bit ambiguous on whether or not you should go in or stop  that kind of a question can be asked and theres an answer… And its designed to do the right thing even when support isnt available.
You touched upon a key thing there. Phoenix has been amazing for us… If its really tight you dont need to see that far ahead but when you are going at 45 and sometimes people are driving 50 to 60 miles per hour you do need to see a lot further anticipate objects make unpredicted turns and so on. And what we found is when we went from Phoenix to San Francisco  the ultra high density of pedestrian narrow streets doubleparked cars and so on  one thing were realizing is that every other good weather city in the United States at least and some internationally as well is just a linear combination of the two. So if you take LA for example West Hollywood is a bit like the dense parts of San Francisco but its paths to the suburbs are very much like Phoenix.

On the axis of weather were now doing rain and fog… and then the next eventually will be snow… What were trying to make sure of is that we dont go to a city just to rubberstamp it just to be able to say that were autonomous there.
The US economy inched closer to a socalled soft landing after a new batch of labor data economists said.

A soft landing is a good thing. It would mean the Federal Reserve has accomplished the difficult task of taming inflation without triggering a recession.

Job openings a barometer of employer demand for workers fell by 617000 to 8.7 million in October the lowest since March 2021 the US Department of Labor reported Tuesday in its monthly Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey.

Another key ingredient of a sustainably soft landing is falling into place Jason Furman a professor at Harvard University and former chair of the White House Council of Economic Advisers during the Obama administration wrote about job openings.
On its face a weakening labor market may sound like bad news  but that trend is by design.

The Fed started raising borrowing costs aggressively in early 2022 to tame stubbornly high inflation. By raising interest rates to their highest level since 2001 the central bank has aimed to cool the economy and the labor market.

The Fed has been walking a tightrope bringing down inflation from fourdecade highs without causing an economic downturn. The opposite  a hard landing  would mean a recession.

A soft landing is like Goldilocks porridge for central bankers Brookings Institution economists wrote recently. In this scenario the economy is just right  neither too hot inflationary nor too cold in a recession they said.
Its absolutely the best possible outcome said Julia Pollak chief economist at ZipRecruiter. And I think the chances for it get higher and higher all the time. We are very very close.

There is no official definition for a soft landing. According to conventional wisdom it has only been achieved once  in 199495  in the history of 11 Fed monetarypolicytightening cycles dating to 1965 the American Economic Association wrote.
The labor market plays a key role relative to inflation.

It heated up to an unprecedented degree as the US economy reopened in 2021. Employers clamored for workers leading to recordhigh job openings which allowed workers to quit for new jobs with ease  and often much higher pay. Wage growth hit highs unseen in decades.

The fear was a socalled wageprice spiral a vicious cycle whereby businesses continue to raise prices rapidly to compensate for higher worker wages. Consumers in turn demand bigger raises to compensate for higher prices at the store and so on. That dynamic hasnt materialized economists say.
The latest labor data added to encouraging news about a likely soft landing economists said.

A big pullback in job openings didnt coincide with weakness elsewhere. Quits and hires held steady around their respective prepandemic levels. Layoffs remain low and are about 17 below their prepandemic baseline suggesting employers want to hold on to workers Pollak said.  

Despite the large monthly decline job openings are still 25 above their February 2020 level she added.
The ratio of job openings to unemployed workers fell to 1.3 in October down from a pandemicera high of 2.0 and near the prepandemic level of 1.2.

This JOLTS report should bring abundant holiday cheer as the probability of a soft landing continues to rise Nick Bunker director of economic research at the Indeed Hiring Lab wrote Tuesday.

The current state of the labor market suggests no further recalibration is necessary to bring it back into balance he added. Its already there.
In short The labor market has cooled while layoffs havent spiked and workers still enjoy relatively good job security and prospects economists said.

Its still a favorable labor market Pollak said.

However workers have lost leverage relative to 2021 and 2022. Big pay increases arent as prevalent nor are signing bonuses. While there remain ample job opportunities they are harder to get Pollak said. Outside of industries such as health care in which theres an acute labor shortage the opportunities arent quite as attractive she added.

Signet Jewelers CEO Gina Drosos told CNBCs Jim Cramer on Tuesday that marriage proposals are finally on the rise years after Covid disrupted typical dating patterns and hurt the companys business.

We know a lot about dating couples and so we feel quite confident that our predictions are right and that the engagement trough has happened Drosos said. We have a threeyear tailwind behind us.

Bridal jewelry especially engagement rings makes up about 50 of Signets sales said Drosos. Signet owns several jewelry retailers including Jared Zales and Kay Jewelers. The company attributed poor sales in recent years to the slowed dating and stalled relationships brought on by isolation during the pandemic.

Drosos said the company predicted this year would be a trough a low point and explained that engagements are still down 25 compared to a typical prepandemic year. Yet the company managed to top Wall Streets estimates for earnings per share in its Tuesday quarterly report and its stock was up more than 5 by Tuesdays close.

Signet sees a greater number of betrothals on the horizon citing data collected from its own surveys as well as from partners Google
 and Meta. The company tracks 45 milestones couples go through before getting engaged including late stage ones like taking a trip or moving in together. Drosos said those categories grew over the last two quarters.

Signets surveys also suggest that younger generations have a greater desire to get engaged than in years past she added.

It turns out 80 of Gen Z and Millennial customers who arent married want to get engaged and in fact thats up from a survey that we did five years ago she said. So engagement is alive and well.
Job openings tumbled in October to their lowest in 2½ years a sign the historically tight labor market could be loosening.

Employment openings totaled a seasonally adjusted 8.73 million for the month a decline of 617000 or 6.6 the Labor Department reported Tuesday. The number was well below the 9.4 million estimate from Dow Jones and the lowest since March 2021.

The decline in vacancies brought the ratio of openings to available workers down to 1.3 to 1 a level that only a few months ago was around 2 to 1 and is nearly inline with the prepandemic level of 1.2 to 1.

Federal Reserve policymakers watch the report known as the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey closely for signs of labor slack. The Fed has boosted interest rates dramatically since March 2022 in an effort to slow the labor market and cool inflation and is contemplating its next policy move.

While job openings fell dramatically total hires only nudged lower while layoffs and separations were modestly higher.

Quits which are seen as a measure of worker confidence in the ability to change jobs and find another one easily also were little changed. The quits rate had peaked around 3 of total employment in late 2021 into early 2022 during what briefly was known as the Great Resignation as workers left their old jobs in search of positions that paid more and offered better working conditions; it since has declined to 2.3.

This data certainly solidifies the Feds decision to keep rates unchanged while looking for signs of a pivot in the upcoming meeting next week said Tuan Nguyen US economist at RSM. Besides inflation job opening data serving as a proxy for labor demand and wage pressure has been the Feds top priority in recent times.

Declines in job openings were widespread by industry.

The biggest sector decline was education and health services 238000 followed by financial activities 217000 leisure and hospitality 136000 and retail 102000.

The JOLTS data comes just a few days ahead of the Labor Departments nonfarm payrolls count for November. Economists expect that report to show an increase of 190000 an uptick from Octobers 150000 according to Dow Jones.

Fed officials have been targeting the redhot jobs market as a specific area of concern in their battle to take inflation down from what had been a fourdecade high last year. Seeing a decline in job openings likely will be welcome news to policymakers as it could mean that less labor demand could help bring the jobs market back in line from what had been a huge mismatch with supply.

The Fed holds its twoday policy meeting next week with markets largely expecting the Federal Open Market Committee to leave interest rates unchanged. Traders in the fed funds futures market are pricing in rate cuts to begin in March on anticipation that inflation data will continue to show progress and as the central bank tries to fend off a potential slowdown or recession ahead.

In other economic news Tuesday the ISM services index for November registered a reading of 52.7 representing the share of companies reporting expansion versus contraction. The reading was nearly a full percentage point higher than October and slightly above the Dow Jones forecast for 52.4.

Gains in the survey came from inventory sentiment inventories and new export orders. Employment nudged higher to 50.7 while prices edged lower to 58.3. A reading above 50 represents growth.
House Republican leaders expect to vote next week to formalize their impeachment inquiry into President Joe Biden they said Tuesday.

Even if the House were ultimately to vote to impeach Biden after an inquiry the Democraticcontrolled Senate would not vote to remove him from office. The real risk of a House impeachment is that it could distract the White House and put the president on defense ahead of an election year.

The chamber has no choice but to adopt the impeachment inquiry because the White House is stonewalling an investigation into the Biden familys business activities argued House Speaker Mike Johnson RLa.

Theyre refusing to turn over key witnesses to allow them to testify as theyve been subpoenaed. Theyre refusing to turn over thousands of documents for the National Archives Johnson said at a press conference.

By adopting the impeachment inquiry in a floor vote Johnson said Republican investigators will be at the apex of our constitutional authority when the White House inevitably challenges their subpoenas in court.

This vote is not a vote to impeach President Biden. This is a vote to continue the inquiry of impeachment Johnson said.

House Majority Leader Steve Scalise RLa. and Majority Whip Tom Emmer RMinn. told reporters after a weekly conference meeting Tuesday that they were looking at a vote sometime next week.

The White House has denounced the irresponsible subpoenas that were issued last month to the Democratic presidents family members and their business associates.

The subpoenas are illegitimate the White House argues since the House has not voted to formally authorize an impeachment inquiry.

The Republican House Majority has so far refused to take that step wrote White House counsel Richard Sauber in a letter Friday to House Oversight Chairman James Comer RKy. and Judiciary Chairman Jim Jordan ROhio.

Johnson who leads a slim majority in the House said Saturday he believes Republicans can formalize the impeachment inquiry without Democratic votes.

Former Speaker Kevin McCarthy RCalif. in September directed the House to open the impeachment probe claiming Biden profited from his son Hunter Bidens foreign business affairs before he was president.

In response to the subpoena Hunter Biden said he would be willing to testify publicly before Congress instead of behind closed doors. Comer rejected that offer.
Bitcoin is building on its upward momentum with the flagship cryptocurrency topping 44000 for the first time since April 2022 on Tuesday.

The price of bitcoin was last higher by more than 4 to 43794.99 according to Coin Metrics extending gains from the previous day as the drumbeat for a spot bitcoin exchangetraded fund in the US grew louder. At one point the coin traded as high as 44903.45 its highest level since Apr. 7 2022.

Tuesdays gains bring bitcoin up more than 160 for the year. Ether was higher by 1.6 on the day at 2263.76. Its up 88 for 2023.

Bitcoin has been reaching new highs more frequently over the past several weeks. It broke through 40000 over the weekend for the first time since April 2022 after beginning November around the 34000 level and climbing incrementally to new yeartodate highs in between.
Optimism around the likelihood of a spot bitcoin ETF approval in the US has been the main force behind bitcoins climb which began over the summer. While momentum was lower at first reports of potential bitcoin ETF issuers meeting with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and receiving and implementing feedback on their ETF applications has further fueled investor optimism.

Broad consensus is that there will be a greenlit bitcoin ETF early in 2024 based on the SECs various deadlines to respond which are determined by issuers application filing dates.

On top of that the recent settlement between Binance and the US Department of Justice at the end of November was widely seen as a major hurdle to clear in the postFTX cleanup of the crypto industry. Investors are also looking forward to the Bitcoin halving which is expected to take place in spring 2024.
When it comes to establishing her bona fides as an expert saver and budgeter Carly DeFelice who runs online personal finance course Best Money Class Ever has some big numbers to point to. Between her college graduation in 2008 and her 26th birthday she paid off 35000 in debt and stashed more than 100000 in investments.

Now 38 and a community manager at a coworking space in Austin Texas DeFelice has boosted that number to about 400000 in cash and investments without ever making much more in a year than her current salary of 58000.

But as DeFelice continues to practice the budgeting methods that got her out of debt and allowed her to build wealth the smaller numbers may be even more impressive.

Consider for instance that in September DeFelice spent just 123.65 on groceries. Given the current state of inflation thats not a hard figure to reach on a single trip.

I estimate I spend a few thousand less than the average person by being intentional with writing out my meals and planning what Im going to have for the week DeFelice tells CNBC Make It. My secret tip is to always have a grocery list.

DeFelices grocery money comes out of her weekly discretionary budget of 120 which she carries in cash.

This is what I consider operating expenses. So I buy my necessities first  groceries gas my car  and then whatever was left would be happy hours and hanging out with friends maybe a new shirt or small gifts.

That means that if she wants to have any fun sticking to her grocery budget is imperative. She starts by planning all her meals out for the week which generally includes large-batch dinners she can prep in advance.

The week that Make It interviewed DeFelice the menu included cereal for breakfast; a turkey sandwich chips and an apple for lunch; and a salmon avocado and rice bowl for dinner.

The ingredients DeFelice needed to put those meals together for the week all went down in the same journal she uses to track her budget and on a list that came with her to the grocery store.

I kind of think of Santa Claus  I make a list and check it twice says DeFelice.

Once she makes sure that her list comprises everything shell need to eat for the week she has the confidence to stick to it and avoid purchases that could inflate her grocery budget.

The key is I only buy items on the list so this helps me avoid impulse purchases.

DeFelice applies the same budgeting tactics to dinner or drinks with friends  a 50 line item in her September budget.

Im very proactive. Ill make a lot of the plans and Ill say ‘Lets go to this happy hour she says. While shes there she doesnt have to spend much to have fun with a friend. I can have a heart-to-heart and build a relationship with a friend and spend like 4.

Whether its groceries or a night out if youre intentional about what youre spending on DeFelice says youre less likely to spend on things that dont ultimately have meaning to you.

I have mastered the art of being incredibly social having an amazing social life and also being good at saving my money she says. And I think the way that Ive found balance is I realized that it is the experience with my friends that matters.

My children and grandchildren might not think exactly the way I do but I hope they can observe my life as an example of how to be successful in their careers and relationships  just as I did with the generations before me. 

When I was very young my father practiced law. One of his best friends Grant McFayden Omahas Pioneer Ford dealer was a client. He was a brilliant and self-made man with enormous charm and integrity.

In contrast my father had another client who was pompous unfair and difficult. One day I asked my dad Why do you do so much work for Mr. X this overreaching blowhard instead of working more for wonderful men like Grant? 

Grant treats his employees right his customers right and his problems right my father said. He doesnt have enough remunerative law business to keep you in Coca-Cola. But Mr. X is a walking minefield of wonderful legal business.

This conversation taught me that sometimes you may have to sell your services to an unreasonable blowhard especially if thats what you must do to feed your family. But you want to run your own life like Grant McFayden. 

That was a great lesson that my father shared in a very clever way. Instead of just pounding it in he told it to me in a way that required a slight mental reach. Since I had to reach for it Ive never forgotten it. And Ive used his teaching method with my own children and grandchildren.

Here two of my kids Charles and Wendy share key lessons theyve learned from me over the years. My hope is that theyll hold onto all of these until their 100th birthdays
On the last day of a family ski vacation in Sun Valley when I was about 15 my dad and I were driving back in the snow when he took a 10-minute detour to gas up the red Jeep we were driving.

He was pressed for time to have our family catch the plane home so I was surprised to notice as he pulled into the station that the tank was still half full. I asked my dad why we had stopped when we had plenty of gas and he admonished me Charlie when you borrow a mans car you always return it with a full tank of gas.

My freshman year at Stanford an acquaintance lent me his car. The favor was more because friends we had in common twisted his arm than because he knew me all that well. The tank was half full and the Audi Fox was red which reminded me of that Jeep.

So I topped up the tank before I brought the car back. He noticed. Weve had many good times since and he was a groomsman in my wedding.

My dad never skipped a point of fairness and consideration. His example taught me how to get a good friend  and how to keep one.

My dad often used the family dinner table as a forum to try to educate his children. One of his favorite educational tools was the ‘Morality Tale in which someone faced an ethical problem and had to choose the correct path.

I remember a story he told us about a financial officer at one of his companies who made a mistake that resulted in the loss of hundreds of thousands of dollars to the business. Once he realized his mistake he went directly to the president of the company and told him about it.

The president said ‘This was a terrible mistake and we dont want you ever to make another one like it. But people make mistakes and we can forgive that. You did the right thing which was to admit your mistake. If you had tried to hide it or cover it up for even a short time you would be out of this company. As it is wed like you to stay.

I always remember this story every time I hear of yet another government official who chose to cover up their mistake instead of being honest and leading with integrity.

As a longevity researcher Ive spent the past 20 years studying the habits of people who live to 100 years old or longer particularly the foods they eat.

And in a tucked-away corner of Nicoya Costa Rica I may have found the worlds healthiest breakfast.

Under a red-tiled roof a dozen or so people of the Cooperativa Nicoya wake each morning at 4:00 a.m. They stoke wood fires in clay ovens put cauldrons of spicy beans to boil and mix corn dough with wood ash.

A woman pinches off a golf ball-sized piece of dough on a piece of waxed paper and rotates it with mechanical precision into a perfectly round patty. She slaps it onto a hot clay plate where it expands to a puffy disc before collapsing into a perfect tortilla.

At the other end of the stove three others mix beans with onions red peppers and local herbs. The beans cook slowly for about an hour to tender perfection and are then mixed with rice.

The corn tortillas chewy with a nutty flavor are an excellent source of whole-grain low-glycemic complex carbohydrates.

The wood ash breaks down the corns cell walls making niacin a B vitamin that plays a role in cell signaling and DNA repair available and freeing amino acids so the body can absorb them.
The black beans contain the same pigment-based anthocyanins antioxidants found in blueberries. Theyre rich colon cleansing blood pressure lowering and insulin regulating and they are filled with folates like potassium and B vitamins to boot.

The bean-and-rice combination creates a whole protein which is to say all the amino acids necessary for human sustenance.

The coffee here made from a local strain of pea berry beans provides a boost of antioxidants plus metabolism-boosting caffeine.

The chilero made with vinegar carrots and searingly hot peppers offers a probiotic boost to the breakfast along with curcumin a compound shown to possess antioxidant anti-inflammatory and anticancer properties.

Total cost of the breakfast: 4.23. A very fair price to discover Nicoyas secrets to longevity. You can do as the Nicoyans do  make a large batch of bean soup and then enjoy it all week

Wells Fargo CEO Charlie Scharf said Tuesday that low staff turnover means the company will likely book a large severance expense in the fourth quarter.

Were looking at something like 750 million to a little less than a billion dollars of severance in the fourth quarter that we werent anticipating just because we want to continue to focus on efficiency Scharf told investors during a Goldman Sachs
 conference in New York.

That expense is an accrual for worker layoffs that Wells Fargo expects to make next year according to a bank spokeswoman. The company declined to say how many jobs it will cut.

Wells Fargo needs to get more aggressive managing headcount because employee attrition has slowed this year Scharf added.

Wall Street leaders including Scharf and Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman have said that unusually low attrition among their workers has left them bloated. The industry has been cutting jobs in the past year as it deals with rising funding costs a prolonged slump in Wall Street deals and concern over loan losses.

 Wells Fargo the fourth-biggest U.S. bank by assets was already among the most active in laying off workers this year thanks in part to its retrenchment from the mortgage arena. The bank has cut about 11300 jobs so far in 2023 or 4.7% of its workforce and had 227363 employees as of September.

Scharf spoke of needing to both get more efficient while continuing to invest in revenue-generating areas including credit cards and capital markets.

The bank is is not even close to where it should be on efficiency Scharf said.

Under previous leadership employees had fanned out across the country. Now Scharf wants them near one of the banks office hubs. Some workers will be offered paid relocations while others will only be offered severance. Workers who dont opt to move may lose their roles according to a person with knowledge of the situation.

While his actions point to caution for next year Scharf said Tuesday that both consumers and businesses were holding up well and that his base case for next year is closer to a soft landing for the U.S. economy.

Wells Fargo shares fell more than 1% on Tuesday.

Its been five years since I retired and like most retirees Ive had a lot of time to think. Moving away from the hustle of California to a more serene setting and lifestyle in Mazatlán Mexico has also given me the chance to reflect on whats important.

At 67 I often wonder if I would have done things differently knowing what I know now. This kind of reflection can elicit some regrets but it also produces valuable insights that I can apply to my life now.

I believe wisdom comes with age and experience. While Im happily retired here are three things I really regret doing in my 20s  and my best advice for growing up with a more positive mindset:

I never thought about my finances when I was younger. My Italian immigrant father expected me to run a household. That was it.

Getting married and having children was just what women did. Nobody taught me about making money saving it or investing it. I try not to blame my parents though because they did the best they could with the tools they had at the time.

But what would my life look like now if Id had a set career path and followed it? Or thought to save or invest money 40 years ago? While I dont think a person needs 1.2 million to retire comfortably I do imagine how good I would feel if I had invested just 1000 dollars at some point or even saved 50 a month for 30 years.

It wouldnt be millions but it would be something. 

Billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates on Friday said the world is likely to overshoot a critical temperature threshold that scientists have long warned could bring dangerous and potentially irreversible impacts on people wildlife and ecosystems.

Speaking to CNBCs Tania Bryer in the United Arab Emirates at the COP28 climate conference Gates said he was definitely glass half-full when it comes to the climate crisis and that he was optimistic the Dubai summit could help to drive progress.

However the Microsoft co-founder said any headway in the climate fight would likely not be enough to prevent 2 degrees Celsius of global warming.


His comments come as policymakers and business leaders convene in Dubai for the United Nations biggest and most important annual climate summit. It is widely regarded as a pivotal opportunity to accelerate climate action at a time when the world is on track to record its hottest year on record and as extreme weather events take their toll across the globe.

There is not some binary cut-off where at a certain temperature everything is horrible Gates said on Friday.

We are going to have warming likely above our goals and thats where adaptation comes in to say ‘OK because of this warming what can you do that is very inexpensive like better warning systems for bad weather events or better weather data to help farmers know when to plant.

Gates said it would be imperative to help the poorest adapt to human-induced climate change and to try to minimize damage to ecosystems such as coral reefs.

Fortunately weve made enough progress that were not going to have the extreme cases like of 4 degrees Celsius warming but well sadly probably even miss the 2-degree goal. So well have adaptation as a priority Gates said.

At COP28 countries will assess for the first time exactly how far off track they are to meeting the goals of the landmark Paris Agreement. The 2015 accord aims to limit global warming to well below 2 preferably to 1.5 degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial levels.

The world has already warmed by around 1.1 degrees Celsius scientists say after over a century of burning fossil fuels as well as unequal and unsustainable energy and land use.

In the run-up to the Dubai climate conference the United Nations Environment Programme warned that current pledges under the Paris Agreement put the world on track for up to 2.9 degrees Celsius of warming above pre-industrial levels. UNEP said its findings reaffirmed the urgent need for increased climate action.

The UN has previously said it is the 1.5 degrees Celsius threshold that is considered to be the upper limit if humanity is to avoid the worst of what the climate crisis has in store.

Asked about how he reflected on the challenges for future generations in the context of the climate crisis Gates replied Well there is a lot of amazing things coming through human innovation better medicines AI that can help tutor kids on various things.

At the same time you know we have polarization we have climate change and so its a very dynamic situation he continued. Overall I see a lot of positive things but we do need to prioritize avoiding those negatives because we want not just our children but many generations to come to have an even better life than we do.

The United States and more than 20 other countries plan to triple nuclear power by 2050 to achieve net-zero carbon emissions and limit climate change.

Nuclear power that adheres to the highest standards of safety sustainability security and non-proliferation has a key role to play in keeping 1.5 C within reach U.S. climate envoy John Kerry said in a statement issued over the weekend at the UN climate conference in Dubai United Arab Emirates.

Other major economies that signed on to the agreement include Canada the worlds second-largest uranium producer; France a global leader in nuclear energy; the United Kingdom; and Japan which suffered a devastating nuclear accident in 2011 triggered by an earthquake and tsunami.

The declaration is the most concrete step taken yet by major nations to place nuclear power at the center of the push to transition to clean energy.

Interest in nuclear is booming worldwide amid growing recognition that a more dependable source of clean electricity will be needed to support the rapidly growing role of wind and solar in power grids. Nuclear is one of the few clean energy sources that can provide power without interruption when wind and solar are not available due to weather conditions.

Studies confirm that the goal of global net zero carbon emissions can only be reached by 2050 with swift sustained and significant investment in nuclear energy the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency Rafael Mariano Grossi said in a statement in Dubai on Friday.

The head of the International Energy Agency Fatih Birol said last month that nuclear energy is making a very strong comeback but government support is needed for projects.

Nuclear power capacity needs to more than double from 417 gigawatts in 2022 to more than 900 gigawatts in 2050 to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by that year according to an IEA report published in October.

Nuclear capacity increased 40% worldwide in
