One of the nations largest pharmacy chains is planning to overhaul the way it reimburses its pharmacies for prescriptions as the industry works to provide greater clarity on drug pricing.

CVS Pharmacy announced on Tuesday that it is launching a new reimbursement model CVS CostVantage that will reset how reimbursement happens in an industry and ensure drug prices reflect how much pharmacies pay for the drugs themselves. 

It will not only bring greater transparency but simplicity to the system CVS said.

Moving forward the Rhode Islandbased company will define the drug cost and related reimbursement with contracted pharmacy benefit managers and payors. 

To do this they will use a transparent formula built on the cost of the drug a set markup and a fee that reflects the care and value of pharmacy services according to CVS. 

The company touted this as a foundational step in trying to make the entire system more consumerfriendly.

The new model fairly aligns pharmacy reimbursement to the quality services we provide and is a foundational step towards more pricing clarity for consumers Chief Pharmacy Officer Prem Shah said in a statement.
However consumers will not see an impact soon. The impact will not happen broadly right away either and will depend on which drugs they are getting. The earliest consumer impact would be in the first half of the new year with patients using cash pharmacy discount cards. 

Still CVS said it will make savings happen a lot faster than they otherwise would have.
CostVantage will be incorporated into contracts with pharmacybenefit managers starting in 2025. 
The move is not unfamiliar. For instance Mark Cubans Cost Plus Drug has also promoted itself as offering complete transparency on the cost of drugs so that patients know they are getting a fair price.  
John Kerry US Special Envoy for Climate  having already pledged to close down all United States coal power plants  has committed to slashing the nations emissions from coolingrelated products in the battle against manmade global warming.  

Kerry made his latest announcement at the annual United Nations climate change summit known as COP28 where the US allied with more than 60 other nations in joining the Global Cooling Pledge the worlds first collective focus on climatewarming emissions from cooling equipment and appliances. 

The pledge commits countries to reduce their coolingrelated emissions by at least 68 by 2050 compared to 2022 levels along with a suite of other targets including establishing minimum energy performance standards by 2030.
The pledge targets emissions from coolingrelated appliances such as air conditioning units and refrigerators.

We want to lay out a pathway to reduce coolingrelated emissions across all sectors but increase access to sustainable cooling Kerry told COP28.

Emissions from both the refrigerants and the energy used in cooling now account for about 7 of global greenhouse gas emissions and are expected to triple by 2050 as temperatures continue to rise according to the Clean Cooling Collaborative nonprofit group.  

Kerry and others at the conference argue that as the planet warms airconditioner usage will ramp up and therefore so will emissions. Installed capacity is set to triple by midcentury driven by climbing temperatures growing populations and rising incomes according to research released by the United Nations.

People will buy a very cheap air conditioner produced somewhere in Asia for 100 bucks and plug it in said Jürgen Fischer president of climate solutions at Danish multinational Danfoss which specializes in heating and cooling. 

That will load the energy system a lot and there will be a collapse. I dont think its a good idea to allow these individual plugins anymore he said.
Numerous heat records were broken earlier this year. For instance July set an alltime heat record for the city of Las Vegas with more than 17 days reaching at least 110 degrees. 

Kerrys announcement is the latest in a flurry of promises attendees at the conference made over the last few days as a way of tackling climate change. 
The consensus emanating from the conference is that drastic and urgent action is required to reduce emissions to keep temperatures from rising above 1.5 degrees Celsius. 
Skeptics point to natural forces like the sun as being the main driving forces behind climate change.

For instance last week at COP28 Kerry committed the United States to not building any new coal plants and phasing out existing plants.

Kerry also announced a joint commitment with Romania to triple nuclear energy and reduce methane emissions to achieve Net Zero which means cutting greenhouse gas emissions to as close to zero as possible.

Meanwhile in New York City earlier this year officials proposed outlawing coal and woodfired ovens to reduce carbon emissions by 75.
Jason Isaac founder of the American Energy Institute said that the Biden administrations green agenda has already driven up prices and increased energy poverty in the US

Every country that is decreasing its use of coal is increasing its energy cost and thats hurting people Isaac told Fox Business Neil Cavuto.

Last year in the United States five million people had their utilities disconnected because their costs are increasing astronomically.

A growing number of Americans are worried about defaulting on their student loan debt after a threeyear payment hiatus according to new data published by MassMutual.

The data published Tuesday morning indicates that three months after the federal student loan payment pause ended about three in five affected individuals are concerned they may have to file for bankruptcy in order to eliminate their debt.

On top of that onethird of respondents said they do not expect to fully pay off their loans before they retire.

Student loan payments are still playing the Grinch this holiday season and many Americans are wisely making lifestyle changes to pay off their debt while planning to spend thoughtfully said Paul LaPiana a chief financial planner and the head of the MassMutual brand.
There was a pandemicera freeze on federal student loan payments in place since March 2020. However that pause officially ended at the beginning of October setting up a potential financial shock for millions of Americans.

The average monthly bill hovers between 200 and 299 per person although it is even higher for some borrowers according to the most recent Federal Reserve data.

Collectively borrowers resumed paying about 10 billion a month according to an analysis from JPMorgan.

The MassMutual report suggests that Americans are feeling the pinch from the resumption of payments. A staggering 76 of respondents with student loan debt said the restart of payments has had a negative impact on their daytoday health.
The findings come amid evidence that more Americans are filing for bankruptcy in order to offload their student loan debt.
The Department of Justice said in a news release published in November that 632 borrowers filed to use bankruptcy in order to eliminate student loans in the period from November 2022 through September 2023 an increase from earlier levels. 
By comparison the prepandemic average annual rate was about 480.

The departments anticipate that this trend will continue the Justice Department said in the release.

The uptick in bankruptcy filings comes one year after the Biden administration introduced a new legal pathway that made it easier for borrowers to discharge federal student loan debt in bankruptcy.

The updated guidelines from the Justice and Education departments announced in November 2022 were designed to make it easier for the government to identify whether to grant a discharge without unnecessarily burdensome and timeconsuming investigations. 


Congress had previously set a higher bar for discharging student loan debt when compared to other types of debt like medical or credit card requiring borrowers who seek to file for bankruptcy to demonstrate they will suffer undue hardship if the debt is not discharged. 
Now borrowers must prove they meet three criteria in order to offload their student loan debt lack the ability to repay the loan currently are unable to repay the loan in the future and made a goodfaith effort to repay the loan.

The government said the latest data on loan discharges suggested the rule change has succeeded in making it easier for eligible borrowers to achieve a bankruptcy discharge of their federal student loan debts.
One year ago we set out to simplify and improve the process for student loan borrowers in bankruptcy said Associate Attorney General Vanita Gupta in the news release Thursday. 
Our oneyear review indicates that our efforts have made a real difference in borrowers lives by ensuring studentloan discharges are more accessible to eligible borrowers. 

The policy shift is part of President Bidens efforts to reduce or eliminate student loan debt for Americans.

The Supreme Court earlier this year struck down Bidens student loan forgiveness plan that would have wiped out up to 20000 in loans per borrower.

Since then the White House has announced other efforts to reduce student loan debt including erasing 127 billion of debt owed by about 3.6 million borrowers.
US housing markets that saw the biggest sales declines in 2023 are projected to achieve doubledigit sales growth in the new year according to data from Realtor.com.

Industry economists with the real estate listings website determined the top 10 housing markets that are expected to fare well in 2024 in terms of sales growth. 
Home sales are expected to rise slightly over the coming year nationwide but Realtor.com expects markets in the Northeast Midwest and Southern California to rebound from significant sales declines in 2023.
In California Oxnard Riverside Bakersfield San Diego and Sacramento are among the markets that are slated to see doubledigit sales growth according to industry economists with the real estate listings website. 
On average these five metros are expected to have sales growth of 13.1 in 2024. 

Toledo Ohio; Las Vegas Nevada and Springfield Massachusetts are also expected to see a doubledigit jump in sales activity. 
Overall Oxnard Toledo and Riverside are expected to see the biggest growth in sales at 18 14 and 13.8 respectively according to the data. 

However Toledo stands out as the only market on the list that is projected to do better than the average home sales count during prepandemic times. 
Realtor.com economists noted that there are several factors drawing buyers to the Midwest and Northeast. For one they offer relatively affordable options in comparison to larger urban centers according to the report. 
As of October most of the metros listed on Realtor.coms top 10 metropolitan areas had median listing prices below the national average. 
The top markets in these regions also exhibit a degree of insulation from the impact of higher mortgage rates according to the Realtor.com report. 
This is due in large part to a higher proportion of homeowners residing in housing units without a mortgage. 
Toledo has the highest share of homeowners among the top 10 markets who own their homes outright at 41.2 according to the recent American Community Survey. 

Aside from that economists at Realtor.com reported that the Midwest and Northeast offer a higher quality of life with cultural amenities recreational opportunities and educational institutions. 
US job openings tumbled in October to the lowest level in more than two years the latest evidence that the Federal Reserves interestrate hike campaign is continuing to cool the labor market.

The Labor Department said Tuesday there were 8.7 million job openings in October a decrease from the downwardly revised 9.3 million openings reported the previous month. Economists surveyed by Refinitiv expected a reading of 9.3 million.

It marked the lowest level for job openings since March 2021
The Federal Reserve closely watches these figures as it tries to gauge labor market tightness and wrestle inflation under control. 

The central bank has responded to the inflation crisis and the extremely tight labor market by raising interest rates at the fastest pace in decades. Officials have so far approved 11 rate hikes lifting the federal benchmark funds rate to the highest level since 2001. 
Policymakers have signaled that additional rate hikes are on the table if economic data points to a resurgence in price pressures.
However the softerthanexpected jobs data could give policymakers more space to end their tightening campaign. 

This is the type of JOLTS report that Fed officials want to see said zOren Klachkin financial market economist at Nationwide. 
Lower job openings marginally higher layoffs and steady quits indicate that labor demand and supply are moving into a healthier balance. Fed officials are likely finished raising rates.
Still job openings remain historically high. 
Before the COVID19 pandemic began in early 2020 the highest on record was 7.6 million. 
There are roughly 1.5 jobs per unemployed American. 

The number of Americans quitting their jobs meanwhile ticked lower to 3.6 million or roughly 2.3 of the workforce indicating that workers remain confident they can leave their jobs and find employment elsewhere.
Switching jobs has been a windfall for many workers over the past year Jobswitchers saw their real hourly wage increase 6.6 in September compared to a 5.3 pay increase for workers who stayed in the same job according to recent Atlanta Fed data.

The report also indicated that layoffs were largely unchanged last month hovering around 1.55 million.
The underlying inflation pressures hitting US consumers eased in October compared to September according to a new report released by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on Monday.

The New York Fed said its multivariate core trend MCT inflation reading came in at 2.6 in October down slightly from Septembers 2.88 reading. The bank said the higher level of the MCT compared to its prepandemic average is in large part due to the sectorspecific trends in housing and services exhousing.

The New York Feds MCT index aims to measure the persistence of inflation and how broadly inflationary pressures on consumer prices are changing. The MCT index peaked at 5.44 in June 2022 and the October reading closely matched the sixmonth trend of the personal consumption expenditures index  the Feds preferred inflation gauge  which stood at a 2.5 rise in October.
The report comes as central bank officials weigh economic data ahead of the Feds final policy meeting of the year which is set to occur next week on Dec. 1213 and could bring another interest rate hike or a continued pause.

Federal Reserve officials have sought a soft landing for the US economy since the current inflationary cycle accelerated dramatically in 2022 peaking at a 40year high of 9.1 in June 2022 before gradually declining to 3.2 in October 2023  which remains well above the Feds 2 target.
To tamp down inflation the Fed aggressively raised interest rates through the benchmark federal funds rate 11 times in 16 months  going from near zero to above 5 which is the fastest monetary tightening the Fed has undertaken since the 1980s. Raising interest rates tends to slow economic activity and dampen the labor market although both have avoided significant declines despite the rate hikes to date.

Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said Friday that the economy is better balanced and that we are getting what we want regarding the economys trajectory. He added While the lower inflation readings of the past few months are welcome that progress must continue if we are to reach our 2 objective.
Powell and members of the Federal Open Market Committee FOMC which sets the course of monetary policy will weigh whether inflation and economic activity are resilient enough to warrant another rate hike or if signs of slowing support a continued pause.

New York Fed President John Williams said Thursday that based on what I know now my assessment is that we are at or near the peak level of the target range of the federal funds rate.

Williams added that he thinks the Fed will close in on its target in 2025. His comments and those by Powell come after two other voting members of the FOMC expressed differing views on the need for more interest rate hikes in comments last week.
Michelle Bowman said that more rate hikes are needed to bring inflation down to our 2 percent target in a timely way while emphasizing that monetary policy is not on a preset course.

Christopher Waller said that he is encouraged by the early signs of moderating economic activity in the fourth quarter based on the data in hand but that inflation is still too high and it is too early to say whether the slowing we are seeing will be sustained.
Elon Musk went on his social media platform X to briefly offer his experience with popular video game franchise Grand Theft Auto.

Tried but didnt like doing crime he wrote in an X post late Monday. GTA5 required shooting police officers in the opening scene. Just couldnt do it.

Rockstar Games a video game label under TakeTwo Interactive Software put out Grand Theft Auto V about 10 years ago. In that time frame gamers have picked up over 190 million units of the title with TakeTow having reporting it took just three days of being on the market back then for it to bring in over 1 billion in retail sales. 
Grand Theft Auto V will stop being the most recent title that Rockstar has put out for the franchise in 2025 when the sixth iteration will debut according to a trailer published Monday by Rockstar Games.
Early last month the video game label had indicated a trailer was on its way.
The Grand Theft Auto franchise has seen overall unit sales of over 410 million. 
Amid the debut of the new trailer the stock price of TakeTwo Interactive has posted a decline of 1.5 from where it opened Tuesday. 
Music streaming giant Spotify announced Monday that it will lay off around 1500 employees or 17 of its workforce in an effort to further reduce expenses. The latest round of job cuts come after the company let go of 600 staff members in January and 200 more workers in June.

Spotify CEO Daniel Ek said in a letter to employees that the company put significant emphasis on its growth in 2021 and 2022 as the state of the economy allowed it to do so but we now find ourselves in a very different environment.

While weve made worthy strides as Ive shared many times we still have work to do. Economic growth has slowed dramatically and capital has become more expensive. Spotify is not an exception to these realities Ek said. This brings me to a decision that will mean a significant step change for our company. To align Spotify with our future goals and ensure we are rightsized for the challenges ahead I have made the difficult decision to reduce our total headcount by approximately 17 across the company.

He added I realize that for many a reduction of this size will feel surprisingly large given the recent positive earnings report and our performance. We debated making smaller reductions throughout 2024 and 2025. Yet considering the gap between our financial goal state and our current operational costs I decided that a substantial action to rightsize our costs was the best option to accomplish our objectives. While I am convinced this is the right action for our company I also understand it will be incredibly painful for our team.
n the letter Ek explained that Spotify took advantage of the opportunity presented by lowercost capital and invested significantly in team expansion content enhancement marketing and new verticals which resulted in robust growth for the company.

During the third quarter Spotify turned a profit growing its number of subscribers in all regions.

The streaming platform also benefited from the success of Taylor Swift who is now a billionaire  a culmination of her immensely profitable Eras tour several Billboard top10 albums and her lucrative Taylor Swift The Eras Tour film that was featured at theaters across the country.
After this years Spotify Wrapped was announced Swift was named Spotifys topstreamed artist of 2023. She will earn more money than any artist ever has on the platform Billboard reported.
Spotify announced Wednesday that users have listened to her songs more than 26.1 billion times since Jan. 1. The recordsetting streams earned her about 97 million in recorded music royalties according to Billboard.

The company also forecast its monthly listeners would reach 601 million this quarter alone.

Despite this growth Ek said the economy has declined and that capital has become more expensive
He also said the extra personnel helped achieve higher profits but struggled to maintain efficiency in the number of dollars spent.

By most metrics we were more productive but less efficient. We need to be both Ek said in the letter.
We debated making smaller reductions throughout 2024 and 2025 he continued. Yet considering the gap between our financial goal state and our current operational costs I decided that a substantial action to rightsize our costs was the best option to accomplish our objectives.

Spotifys cuts come as other tech companies also saw reductions in their workforce this year including Google Amazon Microsoft and Meta.
A merger between Alaska and Hawaiian Airlines  if approved by US regulators  will result in fewer cheap flights according to industry experts.  

Alaska on Sunday announced that it was buying rival carrier Hawaiian in a deal valued at 1.9 billion. The carrier touted that the merger would unlock more destinations for consumers and expand choice of critical air service options and access according to the announcement. 
But Going.com travel expert Katy Nastro told FOX Business that a merger between any airline no matter how big or small eliminates competition in the market and effects airline fares. 

Competition between airlines means they have to come to the table with something to offer consumers to sway their buying decision Nastro said. When it comes down to it for a leisure consumer price will always be the deciding factor. 
Its the very reason why Jetblues proposed buyout of Spirit Airlines is getting pushback from antitrust regulators. 

While this merger announced Sunday would be different from JetBlue and Spirits deal given that the airlines control far less of the industry the same principle applies she said.
As consumers we want competition in the marketplace even if its just one more airline flying in and out of an airport or on a specific route Nastro said. 
Thats leaving fewer airlines to offer options and compete with one another and that actually hurts the consumer in the end. Its not helping the consumer Nastro said. 
Given that there could be less competition if the merger is approved it means it wont pull down ticket prices.

Earlier this year Going.com founder Scott Keyes posted on social media that a merger between these airlines would result not in more cheap flights for consumers but fewer.

Competition between airlines is the single biggest cause of cheap flights Keyes wrote.

Its unlikely that there will be drastic price hikes. This also doesnt mean that cheap flights are going away but it definitely doesnt hurt that it doesnt help the cause Nastro said.
She calls the merger a doubleedged sword because on the flip side of things the deal could potentially give people on the West Coast and even the Hawaiian Islands a lot more connectivity especially those looking to travel internationally but it wont equally benefit everyone. 

Especially if I live in Hawaii or on the West Coast now I can get more connectivity to potentially Asia she said adding that they are definitely looking at Honolulu as being this sort of gateway for Alaska which has been trying to build out its international profile. 

However just because a deal was announced doesnt mean it will come to fruition. If it does it would take at least a year to complete she said. 

Nastro expects the Department of Justice DOJ to take a finetoothed comb to this deal especially due to the current administrations general hard line when it comes to any type of consolidated industries like air transportation.

Earlier this year the DOJ sued to block JetBlues proposed merger with Spirit alleging that the lowcost carrier has brought lower fares and more options to routes across the country making it possible for more Americans  particularly price sensitive consumers who pay their own fares  to travel. 

The DOJ further argued that the proposed acquisition a deal valued at 3.8 billion would eliminate the Spirit Effect where Spirits presence in a market forces other air carriers including JetBlue to lower their fares. 
In eliminating half of the ultralow cost capacity regulators argued that it would lead to higher fares and fewer seats. 
However last month Spirit CEO Ted Christie defended the pending deal saying his carrier remained relatively insignificant and that since 2016 it knew that it would have to combine with a rival in order to effectively compete against the heavy hitters that dominate 80 of the US market according to Reuters. 

This includes American Southwest Delta and United Airlines. 
Artificial intelligence could forever alter the trucking sector with driverless vehicles but some companies are using gamechanging technology to make the vehicles safer and their fleet more efficient.

Software company Samsara has created an AIpowered coach which analyzes cameras to among other things scan environments and even keep tabs on drivers. The AI provides incab audible coaching to a driver by analyzing the cabfacing and roadfacing cameras in realtime and sends instant alerts to the companys headquarters.
One of the companies that uses the software is Good Greek Moving & Storage in Florida. 

The AI software will alert us if a driver is on the phone if the drivers texting if the driver is smoking because they have no smoking policy company founder & CEO Spero Georgedakis told FOX Business. So its safety features. Its also making sure that theyre following company policy as well.
Georgedakis adds We can check the speed. We can check whether to make sure that theyre following all the laws of the road including stopping at stop signs stopping at red lights. Hard stopping. We can monitor all that.

The technology as you can imagine is dealing with potential legal headaches. A useful tool in one of the most litigious states in the country with some of the highest insurance rates.
Good Greek Director of Operations Chris Byrne says Its going to pick up everything that happens before during and after the accident as well as itll stay on through the process. And what that does is provides both sides of the story.

As a result Georgedakis adds another benefit of the higher levels of safety is lower costs We got less incidents of claims whether that be truck damage accidents and so forth or even workers compensation claims. In fact weve seen a decrease in our insurance costs and our worker comp rebates as a result of using this AI software.
But while many companies seem to be eager to adopt the technology there has been some resistance. According to Byrne Most our younger generation coming up theyre trained on all this in their in their academies in their classes in their schools because its so prevalent in almost every trucking company now. But as you get into some of the older range of drivers that were just used to pen and paper. No technology. Theyre the ones that are sometimes having some issues with some of the safety features.

The Biden administration plans to buy 2.7 million barrels of oil to help replenish the nations muchdepleted emergency stockpile.

The planned purchase for the oil is at an average price of 79 per barrel the Department of Energy said in a statement on Friday.

Biden sold off more than 40 of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve last year to help lower gas prices following the Russian invasion of Ukraine. In total the White House tapped the reserve four times last year including when Biden ordered a recordsetting 180 million barrels of oil released from the reserve. 

The repeated withdrawals left the stockpile at the lowest level since the 1980s prompting accusations from Republicans that Biden had left the US vulnerable to potential energy threats.

The reserve had 351 million barrels in the week ended November 24 still near the lowest level since 1984 according to the latest Department of Energy data. That is down from about 630 million barrels at the beginning of 2020.
Established after a 197374 oil embargo by Arab members of OPEC the reserve has been used in several emergencies including in 2005 after Hurricane Katrina made landfall and destroyed swaths of the Gulf of Mexico oil infrastructure. At the time the Bush administration authorized the release of 20.8 million barrels of crude oil to US producers. 
Proponents of releasing barrels from the emergency stockpile say that doing so increases oil supplies and reduces prices at the pump while also generating billions in revenue for the federal government. But critics say that releasing emergency supplies is a shortterm fix and does not increase the countrys oil production capabilities. 

The White House announced plans earlier this year to replenish the oil reserve with a call for bids to repurchase 60 million barrels of oil  roughly onethird of the emergency supply released by the president in 2022.
West Texas Intermediate the US benchmark was hovering around 75.90 per barrel on Friday despite a fresh round of OPEC+ production cuts. That marks a major drop from May 2022 when prices hit a high of 120 per barrel. 
However it is a notable increase from early 2020 when prices were under 20 per barrel. At the time former President Donald Trump tried to add 77 million barrels of oil to the emergency oil cache but he was blocked by congressional Democrats. 

Brent crude meanwhile was trading around 80 per barrel.
Saudi Arabia and Russia on Thursday deepened their oil supply cuts announcing an agreement to continue scaling back production at the beginning of 2024.

The voluntary move by Moscow Riyadh and other members of OPEC+ will reduce crude output by about 2 million barrels a day for the first quarter of 2024. Saudi Arabia first began scaling back output in July and has extended the production cut three times so far.

OPEC+ which is the group of oilproducing nations responsible for about 40 of global output announced the news Thursday after its virtual meeting to discuss 2024 output amid concerns of a potential surplus.
Other members including the United Arab Emirates Kuwait Iraq Algeria Kazakhstan and Oman pledged additional cuts in the threemonth period from January to March.

Oil prices initially rose on Thursday but fell later in the session despite the fresh supply curb. Investors were bracing for deeper production cuts.
The market reaction implies disbelief in the full efficacy of the cuts JPMorgan Chase analyst Christyan Malek said according to Reuters.

West Texas Intermediate crude the US benchmark fell to about 76 a barrel during late afternoon trading down from a recent peak of 93. Brent crude  the international benchmark  was hovering around 80 a barrel down about 2.5 from the previous day.
Americans have enjoyed the benefits of lower gas prices recently despite the extensive oil cuts by OPEC+.

The average cost of a gallon of regular gasoline was about 3.24 on Thursday according to AAA. That is well below the record high of 5.01 notched in June 2022 and a marked drop from just one month ago when prices hovered around 3.49.

The latest export cuts come in addition to existing supply reductions by OPEC+.

The group already had in place oil output cuts of about 3.66 million barrels per day when Saudi Arabia and Russia introduced the additional supply cut on Thursday.

The White House has previously criticized the action with President Biden vowing there will be consequences for Saudi Arabia.
Mortgage rates fell again this week continuing a downward trend that has sparked a recent uptick in demand and fueled hopes that more homeowners will be willing to sell amid an ongoing inventory shortage. Still affordability struggles remain.

Freddie Mac reported Thursday that the average rate on the benchmark 30year fixed mortgage fell for the fifth straight week to 7.22 down from 7.29 last week. At this time a year ago the 30year note averaged 6.49.

The average rate for a 15year fixed mortgage also declined dropping to 6.56 from 6.67 the week prior. The 15year rate averaged 5.67 a year ago.
Market sentiment has significantly shifted over the last month leading to a continued decline in mortgage rates said Sam Khater Freddie Macs chief economist. 
The current trajectory of rates is an encouraging development for potential homebuyers with purchase application activity recently rising to the same level as midSeptember when rates were similar to todays levels Khater continued. The modest uptick in demand over the last month signals that there will likely be more competition in a market that remains starved for inventory.

The Mortgage Bankers Association MBA reported Wednesday that mortgage applications have climbed for four straight weeks. The decline in rates helped to spur more housing demand with applications for a mortgage to purchase a home climbing 5 for the week. Still application volume remains down 19 compared with the same time last year. 
In addition to helping to improve affordability for homebuyers a continued decline in mortgage rates could also convince some homeowners to sell which would increase the low supply of existing homes on the market MBA President and CEO Bob Breoksmit said in a statement.
But many homeowners who are locked in at significantly lower rates than are available today are reluctant to move or unable to afford to do so. Realtor.com reported Thursday that pending home sales fell 1.5 in October to the lowest level since the real estate agency began tracking the data in 2001.

More prospective buyers are now looking to new construction rather than existing homes as builders can often offer more favorable rate terms but builders appear to be having some jitters too.
While buyers faced limited existing home inventory especially as mortgage rates climbed in October new construction activity picked up offering hope that additional home supply is inbound said Realtor.com senior economic research analyst Hannah Jones. 
However Jones added as the cost of homeownership remains out of reach for many wouldbe buyers homebuilder sentiment fell to the lowest level since December 2022 suggesting builders are concerned about how ongoing affordability headwinds will impact buyer demand.
The Internal Revenue Service IRS is raising the stakes for those who underpay their taxes by ratcheting up the interest penalty that will be assessed in next springs tax filing season.

Earlier this fall the IRS increased its interest penalty on estimated tax underpayments to 8  a notable jump from 3 just two years ago. The IRS is required by law to recompute the interest rate penalty every quarter and for taxpayers other than corporations the assessed rate is the federal shortterm rate plus three percentage points.

Selfemployed workers and independent contractors including many gig workers will be at risk of being hit with the underpayment penalty if they fail to pay the amount the IRS believes they owe. Taxpayers dont face an interest penalty for underpayment if the balance due is under 1000 after their credits and other tax account information is factored in.
Such workers are required to make estimated tax payments at least once each quarter if they dont have at least 90 of their taxes withheld during the regular pay periods. For example taxpayers subject to this payment program will make the estimated payment for the fourth quarter of 2023 by Jan. 16 2024.

The changes wont affect most taxpayers who are W2 employees and have tax payments withheld from each paycheck they receive. In the majority of those cases taxpayers are ultimately owed a tax refund rather than facing an underpayment penalty.
Joseph Doerrer a CPA and financial planner in New Jersey told The Wall Street Journal Its a cautionary tale for individuals to think about as we get toward yearend. Are you where you should be?

Sameet Durg a marketing executive was surprised when he went to Doerrer to have his taxes prepared when he learned that he owed an underpayment penalty that reached into the thousands of dollars in addition to a large tax bill in April because he wasnt periodically making estimated payments on taxes owed from his consulting income.

Now I pay attention to taxes all year around Durg told the Journal. I dont want the giant hit in April.
The IRS has a taxwithholding estimator tool available for taxpayers to reference. To use the tool taxpayers would need to input information from their prior years tax return as well as relevant pay stubs and taxable income sources.
During the third quarter more homebuyers looked to leave the Texas capital once a pandemic hotspot that saw an influx out oftown buyers than those who wanted to move in according to data from brokerage Redfin. This marks the first time there hasnt been a net inflow of buyers into the area since Redfin started tracking this data in 2017.

Over the past year the number of Austinbased Redfin users searching for a new home outside the metro area more than doubled. 
Its an aboutface from the early days of the pandemic when the city saw an influx of outoftown buyers taking advantage of the work from home policies and recordlow mortgage rates. For the first time buyers were able to seek out more space and more affordable homes with fewer constraints.
Austins popularity which began even before the pandemic surged to such a high degree that it was considered the top US migration destination at the start of 2021 according to Redfin but now more buyers are in favor of leaving given the rise in housing costs and with remote work policies changing once again. 
In mid2022 home prices in Austin surged more than 75 compared to prepandemic times. Although prices have fallen since that peak homes are still significantly more expensive. In fact the gap between home prices in expensive metro areas like Los Angles and San Francisco and Austin is even smaller than before. 

Mortgage rates are only exacerbating this problem. 
With the key US mortgage rate sitting at 7.63 todays typical monthly payment for Austins medianpriced home has nearly doubled. 

For a median priced home in the area about 455000 the monthly payments are now 3890. In 2019 homeowners were paying 2136 for a median sale price of 320000 with an average mortgage rate of 3.94. 
Mortgage rates rose past the 6 mark in September 2022 and have remained above that level ever since. 

Aside from the costs Redfin agents reported that some formerly remote workers have moved back to their home city after workfromhome policies reverted. Meanwhile some others are likely leaving to be closer to major job hubs according to Redfin. 
The nepo home buyer has shown resilience in todays volatile market and one housing expert is warning anything goes to get deals done.

I think what you really have is that the demand is incredibly high for firsttime homebuyers and the only way they can afford a home is the bank of mom and dad National Association of Home Builders CEO Jim Tobin said on Varney & Co. Tuesday. Thats really the story here. There just isnt a supply for them to go out and save for their own down payment.

According to a survey from Redfin 38 of recent homebuyers under the age of 30 reported either using a cash gift or inheritance from family in order to place a down payment on property.

I think today anything goes. Thats my opinion Tobin reacted. Whether underwriters are looking at that they want to make sure you have the ability to repay not whether you can get some down payment to make that mortgage more affordable upfront.
Confidence among builders in the US housing market plunged for the third straight month in October as a spike in mortgage rates continued to weigh on consumer demand for new homes
The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo Housing Market Index which measures the pulse of the singlefamily housing market fell five points to 40 the lowest reading since January 2023. The decline followed a fivepoint drop in September.

Meanwhile rates on the popular 30year fixed mortgage are currently hovering around 7.57 according to Freddie Mac well above the 6.92 rate recorded one year ago and the prepandemic average of 3.9.
Tobin argued many parents and family members know that the road to wealth in America begins with homeownership.

Homeownership is a true gateway to the middle class. And if you can help your kids get that leg up early theyre going to do everything they can the CEO said. Its the American dream homeownership.

Expanding on the declining home builder sentiment Tobin explained the cause as a lack of supply and rising interest rates.
That is the absolute end all be all he noted. We have got to get the Fed to put the brakes and publicly say out loud we are going to stop rate increases. In fact we asked them last week to do that with our friends at the Mortgage Bankers and National Association of Realtors. Its time for the Fed to pump the brakes on rate hikes.

Home prices are extraordinarily high because as much as our builders are trying to build as much as they can theres just not enough to keep up with demand even though interest rates are tempering demand Tobin continued. We still need more supply on there to dry prices.
Judge Jeanine Pirro is taking an exclusive look inside Americas most luxurious hotels in her new FOX Nation series Life of Luxury kicking it off with the Ocean House Hotel located on the stunning coast of Rhode Island. 

The hotel proudly serves fivestar fine dining offers worldclass spa services and even provides guests with a complimentary MercedesBenz to drive during their stay. 
According to the FOX Nation special the Ocean House is the first and only AAA Five Diamond and Forbes FiveStar hotel in the state of Rhode Island. The Ocean House was also awarded two additional FiveStar ratings for its toptier spa and restaurant making it one of 14 hotels in the world to be awarded this honor.

Originally constructed in 1868 in Watch Hill Rhode Island the original building was demolished in 2005 and a new hotel was opened on the same plot of land retaining much of its traditional East Coast charm. 
Prior to its renovation the hotel only operated for three months of the year due to its lack of heating air conditioning and ventilation system. In 2023 the Ocean House is open all year round catering the menu for each of the hotels highclass restaurants to complement the current season. 
The best part about the Ocean House hotel according to Pirro is easily the view. While touring the hotels property Judge Jeanine noted the mesmerizing smell of fresh air which is one of the several benefits of staying at an oceanside hotel.

After taking in the picturesque views guests can enjoy toptier food from their choice of nine different restaurants during the summer months. 
Some are small. We now have one called Secret Garden. Its essentially champagne and crêpes. We have another one called Bloom. Its kind of a concept looking over the other side toward where the sunsets you know cocktails hors doeuvres smaller and large. But it allows guests to spread out. And you never feel busy Ocean House Hotel President and Managing Director Dant Hirsch said
Our chefs are really keen on sourcing locally from farms. Obviously seafood in Rhode Island is the best. So I dont think you can come to Rhode Island without having a lobster roll. But our chef makes one of the best lobster rolls. We work with farms like we have our jams come from a little local purveyor called Quonnie Farms. So we try to source as much locally. And thats thats what chefs do best buy the best product and put it on the plate Hirsch concluded. 
The US housing market continues to pose significant challenges but a recent report from real estate brokerage Redfin argues that theres still hope for potential buyers.

Although mortgage rates  which rose for the fifth consecutive week on Thursday  are expected to remain elevated buyers who decide to jump into the market may see a small reprieve as an uptick in supply and less competition have the potential to drive down costs to some degree.

All hope is not lost for people who want to buy a home soon Redfin said in a Thursday report. 

In its report Redfin highlighted that new listings inched up this fall giving buyers more options. 

At the same time competition in the market typically eases at this time of year given that many consumers have already found a home or renewed a lease according to Realtor.com chief economist Danielle Hale. 

Hale said prices ease because sellers in the market are generally motivated. 
Fall isnt the busiest time for sellers to jump into the housing market and this year is no different in that respect but we have seen some improvement as homeowners and potential sellers acclimate to a higherrate environment Hale added. 
While these factors will provide buyers a bit of a break Hale reiterated that it is still a challenging environment where both home prices and mortgage rates are still eating into affordability. 

The cost of financing a home today is up more than 12 compared with a year ago but its more than doubled within the past three to four years according to Hale. 
On Thursday Freddie Mac reported that the rate on the 30year fixed mortgage rose to 7.57 up from 7.49 a week ago and well above the 6.92 reported a year ago. Mortgage rates rose past 6 in September 2022 and have remained above that threshold since. 

Its a far cry from when the 30year fixed mortgage rate sat at 3.22 in January 2022. 
Redfin economic research lead Chen Zhao said that many buyers have the ability to secure a lower rate if they shop around with lenders. 

In fact the higher rate environment could play into their favor. Zhao noted that the difference between rates among lenders is bigger when rates are higher. 

Another option is that consumers can also buy down a mortgage rate according to Zhao

The top bosses of JPMorgan Morgan Stanley Citigroup and other Wall Street banks will warn lawmakers that capital hikes and new regulations will hurt the economy according to prepared congressional testimony published on Tuesday.

The CEOs of the countrys eight largest banks will appear before the Senate Banking Committee on Wednesday. The hearing comes amid a fierce industry campaign to kill the Basel Endgame proposal which overhauls how banks must calculate their loss-absorbing capital and as regulators roll out fair lending and fee-cap rules among other consumer rules.

The Basel rule being drafted by bank regulators led by the U.S. Federal Reserve would unjustifiably and unnecessarily increase capital requirements by 20% to 25% for the largest banks forcing them charge more for services or stop offering them altogether Dimon will warn.

Federal Aviation Administration FAA Administrator Mike Whitaker said Tuesday the agency officially established a committee dedicated to breaking down any barriers that would keep pilots or air traffic controllers from addressing mental health issues of any kind. 

The FAA first announced plans to create the Mental Health and Aviation Medical Clearances Rulemaking Committee ARC shortly after an off-duty Alaska Airlines pilot told law enforcement that he was having a nervous breakdown when he allegedly tried to shut down a planes engine mid-flight.

Alaska Airlines Capt. Joseph Emerson who was charged with attempted murder also told investigators he had become depressed six months prior to the October incident which reignited a crucial conversation regarding mental health in the industry. 

Whitaker said in the announcement that a committee comprised of experts from both the aviation and medical communities will be tasked with identifying and breaking down any remaining barriers that discourage pilots and air traffic controllers from reporting and seeking care for mental health issues.  
Whitaker tweeted that this committee is a crucial step toward safely addressing mental health stigma and the well-being of pilots and air traffic controllers. 

The FAA plans to name the panel of experts soon though it didnt specify an exact date. Once a panel is named they will be required to submit recommendations to the FAA by the end of March. 

You cannot put people under this pressure cooker and not expect people to break American Airlines pilot Capt. Dennis Tajer told FOX Business. 
While Tajer applauds the FAA for taking this step hes imploring the agency to take action on whatever recommendations are made. 

Weve seen these committees gather before Tajer stressed. They file a report and then a report is put on a dusty shelf and nothing happens. 

Tajer added that certain rule-making committee recommendations have been sitting on the FAA desk for years such as suggestions for pilot training. 

Just because theyre doing this doesnt mean theyre going to take action he said. With this committee being formed we say ‘Thank you but you better do something.

Tajer has been very vocal about how much pressure pilots are under especially now and the type of consequences that can lead to over time. 

The FAA however has noted in the past that it has been working to address these issues such as increasing mental health training for medical examiners supporting industry-wide research and clinical studies on pilot mental health and hiring additional mental health professionals to expand in-house expertise and to decrease wait times for return-to-fly decisions. 

UFC superstar Conor McGregor has indicated he will look to run for president of the Republic of Ireland following a stabbing attack that prompted a spike in anti-migrant sentiment in the country. 

I listen. I support. I adapt McGregor wrote on social media platform X. I have no affiliation/bias/favoritism toward any party… Id even put it all to vote. Thered be votes every week to make sure. 

It would not be me in power as President people of Ireland he promised. It would be me and you. 

McGregor flirted with the idea of a presidential bid in Ireland noting that he would face off against three near-octogenarians and would stand instead as a young attractive passionate option with fresh skin in the game.

Irelands president is a directly elected head of state who has similar powers to the American president when it comes to signing or vetoing new laws while the prime minister also known as the Taoiseach represents the majority party in parliament and proposes and shapes new legislation. 

Elon Musk suggested the five-time world champ would beat all possible competitors single-handed adding the matchup was not even fair.

McGregor responded that he would fancy his chances of a run while outlining the process for nomination as part of his bid for absolute transparency and consultation to the public. 

Currently there is none McGregor claimed. Not an iota. False promises come around the time of election and then it is literally straight ignorance into the face thereafter. Its disgusting. 

He accused the major parties in Irelands government of focusing on power struggles instead of actually seeking change arguing that if a power swap happened today the situation would simply reverse… the same question and requests and condemnations but only from the opposite side then.

The former featherweight and lightweight champion promised that hed clean the parliament out if it meant our issues were heard and corrected… a true democracy! He also slammed the government for criminal allocation of national funds without an iota of consideration for what the public thinks. 

McGregor has been vocal about his desire to see immigration reform in his native country. He previously spoke out about the death of a 23-year-old Irish teacher and musician Ashling Murphy who was killed in a stabbing in 2022.

He sparked controversy last month when he wrote on X Ireland we are at war following a series of stabbings in Dublin that injured five individuals three of whom were children.  

The attack linked to an immigrant who had lived in Ireland for around two decades sparked a violent riot in Dublin that forced the countrys Garda national police to intervene. McGregor had complained on X about the immigration policies in Ireland mere hours before the attack occurred. 

Police last week found the message Irish Lives Matter scrawled in Belfast Northern Ireland as well as a sign posted saying one neighborhood would no longer accept the rehousing of illegal immigrants. Both incidents are reportedly being investigated by local police as hate-related incidents.

Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar has urged his people not to connect the stabbing with immigration saying it is not right according to the BBC. 

I really would ask people to try and avoid connecting crime with migration Varadkar told the Dail Eireann  the local name for parliament  saying that such connections are not right and influenced by far right ideology. 

Yes of course people who are migrants might commit crimes just as people who arent commit crimes Varadkar stressed adding that there are people born and bred in Ireland who commit terrible crimes every day including murder. 

A growing number of Americans are worried about defaulting on their student loan debt after a three-year payment hiatus according to new data published by MassMutual.

The data published Tuesday morning indicates that three months after the federal student loan payment pause ended about three in five affected individuals are concerned they may have to file for bankruptcy in order to eliminate their debt.

On top of that one-third of respondents said they do not expect to fully pay off their loans before they retire.

Student loan payments are still playing the Grinch this holiday season and many Americans are wisely making lifestyle changes to pay off their debt while planning to spend thoughtfully said Paul LaPiana a chief financial planner and the head of the MassMutual brand.
There was a pandemic-era freeze on federal student loan payments in place since March 2020. However that pause officially ended at the beginning of October setting up a potential financial shock for millions of Americans.

The average monthly bill hovers between 200 and 299 per person although it is even higher for some borrowers according to the most recent Federal Reserve data.

Collectively borrowers resumed paying about 10 billion a month according to an analysis from JPMorgan.

The MassMutual report suggests that Americans are feeling the pinch from the resumption of payments. A staggering 76% of respondents with student loan debt said the re-start of payments has had a negative impact on their day-to-day health.

The findings come amid evidence that more Americans are filing for bankruptcy in order to offload their student loan debt. 

The Department of Justice said in a news release published in November that 632 borrowers filed to use bankruptcy in order to eliminate student loans in the period from November 2022 through September 2023 an increase from earlier levels. By comparison the pre-pandemic average annual rate was about 480.

The departments anticipate that this trend will continue the Justice Department said in the release.

The uptick in bankruptcy filings comes one year after the Biden administration introduced a new legal pathway that made it easier for borrowers to discharge federal student loan debt in bankruptcy.

The updated guidelines from the Justice and Education departments announced in November 2022 were designed to make it easier for the government to identify whether to grant a discharge without unnecessarily burdensome and time-consuming investigations. 

Congress had previously set a higher bar for discharging student loan debt when compared to other types of debt like medical or credit card requiring borrowers who seek to file for bankruptcy to demonstrate they will suffer undue hardship if the debt is not discharged.

Now borrowers must prove they meet three criteria in order to offload their student loan debt: lack the ability to repay the loan currently are unable to repay the loan in the future and made a good-faith effort to repay the loan.

The government said the latest data on loan discharges suggested the rule change has succeeded in making it easier for eligible borrowers to achieve a bankruptcy discharge of their federal student loan debts.

One year ago we set out to simplify and improve the process for student loan borrowers in bankruptcy said Associate Attorney General Vanita Gupta in the news release Thursday. Our one-year review indicates that our efforts have made a real difference in borrowers lives by ensuring student-loan discharges are more accessible to eligible borrowers. 

The policy shift is part of President Bidens efforts to reduce or eliminate student loan debt for Americans.

The Supreme Court earlier this year struck down Bidens student loan forgiveness plan that would have wiped out up to 20000 in loans per borrower.

Since then the White House has announced other efforts to reduce student loan debt including erasing 127 billion of debt owed by about 3.6 million borrowers.

The jackpots of the Powerball and Mega Millions lotteries have reached 812 million combined as they continue to climb after the latest drawings produced no winners.

The Powerball jackpot came to its current level  an estimated 435 million  after its most recent drawing on Monday evening brought no grand prize winner. The annuity option which is also available for Mega Millions represents annual payments over three decades.

It had a value of 204.8 million as a single lump-sum cash value as of Monday according to the lottery.

Powerballs last drawing had one Match 5 winner in New York worth 1 million and zero Match 5 + Power Play winners which could have scored 2 million apiece. 

For Mega Millions which draws on Tuesday evening the annuitized jackpot was estimated at 377 million. The cash option is 179.6 million.

The grand prizes for the lotteries come in at a combined 384.4 million on a lump-sum basis.

With the holiday season upon us any potential winners would celebrate a Christmas  or Hanukkah windfall as inflation remains elevated for most of the country. 

Mega Millions and Powerball have also seen their respective grand prizes climb above the billion-dollar mark. Most recently in mid-October someone in Southern California had a ticket with numbers matching those drawn by the latter for a 1.765 billion jackpot landing them the massive windfall according to Powerball.

New York City bodega owners are taking their safety into their own hands by applying for gun licenses at an alarming rate to protect themselves and their merchandise. 

Founder of the Bodega & Small Business Group Association Frank Marte discussed the growing trend and why grocers are depending on their Second Amendment rights as thieves target their storefronts.

We are not safe Marte told FOX & Friends host Carley Shimkus on Monday. 

We dont have the protection that we need. We understand that the police department… they cannot be assisting when we are having so much sic problems so we need to protect.

Over the past year the United Bodegas of America and the Bodega and Small Business Group helped facilitate 230 gun license applications as business owners remain concerned about how crime in their neighborhood could impact their ability to do business. 

A quarter of bodega owners are now armed in comparison to just 10% prior to the pandemic according to the National Supermarket Association. 

Marte said he had to call 911 in recent weeks for other stores that could not get a police response for 30 minutes. 

He argued the issue is costing business owners money and urged the citys police department to bolster support as their public safety concerns loom. 

We are losing so much money on shoplifting and we dont have